> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/83/149.md)

# Regulations Respecting Oil and Gas Operations on Canada Lands

**SOR/83-149**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/O/O-7.md)

Date registered: 4 February 1983

----------

Whereas a copy of the proposed Canada Oil and Gas Operations Regulations was published in the Canada Gazette Part I on May 8, 1982 and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations with respect thereto.

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and the Treasury Board, pursuant to section 12 of the Oil and Gas Production and Conservation Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting oil and gas operations on Canada lands.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Canada Oil and Gas Operations Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Oil and Gas Production and Conservation Act; (*Loi*)

***operating licence*** means a licence issued pursuant to section 3.2 of the Act. (*licence d’opération*)




## Operating Licence


**3** 

- **(1)** An application for an operating licence may be made by
	- **(a)** an individual who is 18 years of age or over;
	- **(b)** a corporation that is registered with the Registrar of Companies pursuant to the Companies Ordinance of the Northwest Territories; and
	- **(c)** a corporation that is entitled to carry on business in any province.

- **(2)** Every application for an operating licence shall
	- **(a)** be in writing;
	- **(b)** contain the name and address of the applicant;
	- **(c)** be forwarded to the Chief Conservation Officer; and
	- **(d)** be accompanied by a fee of $25 made payable to the Receiver General.



**4** No person shall assign or transfer an operating licence and any purported assignment or transfer of an operating licence is void.




## Work Authorization


**5** No holder of an operating licence shall carry out any geotechnical or engineering feasibility program, environmental study, geophysical or geological program, diving program or other work or activity that is required by the Act to be authorized unless
- **(a)** that work or activity is expressly authorized pursuant to regulations made under the Act; or
- **(b)** the holder has obtained a written authorization pursuant to paragraph 3.2(1)(b) of the Act.
> SOR/88-350, s. 1.





## Reporting of Spills


**6** Any person who, pursuant to subsection 19.1(2) of the Act, reports a spill shall do so by informing the Chief Conservation Officer forthwith of the circumstances and relevant details of the spill by the most rapid and practical means.




### **SCHEDULE** 
[Revoked, SOR/88-350, s. 2]


