> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/83/188.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Greenhouse Tomatoes Marketed in 1981

**SOR/83-188**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 25 February 1983

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to sections 2, 8.2, 10 and 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of greenhouse tomatoes marketed in 1981.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Greenhouse Tomato Stabilization Regulations, 1981.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***acceptable grade*** means the Canada No. 1, Canada No. 2 or Canada Commercial grade of greenhouse tomatoes as prescribed under the [Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/201-300/C.R.C.,%20c.%20285.md) pursuant to the Canada Agricultural Products Standards Act; (*catégorie acceptable*)

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***greenhouse tomatoes*** means fresh tomatoes grown in a greenhouse in Canada during the first eight months of 1981 and sold as fresh produce of an acceptable grade by a producer on or before August 31, 1981; (*tomates de serre*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing greenhouse tomatoes in Canada. (*producteur*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Greenhouse tomatoes are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purpose of determining the prescribed price of greenhouse tomatoes for the calendar year 1981, the percentage of the base price of greenhouse tomatoes for that year is hereby prescribed to be 95 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of greenhouse tomatoes for the calendar year 1981 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 95 per cent of the base price of greenhouse tomatoes for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** The Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers of 3.5¢ per kilogram of greenhouse tomatoes.


