> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/83/748.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Manufacture, Installation and Use of Postage Meters

**SOR/83-748**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA POST CORPORATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-10.md)

----------



## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Postage Meter Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***ascending register*** means any device in a postage meter that records the total accumulated value of postage that has been printed by that postage meter; (*totalisateur*)

***descending register*** means any device in a postage meter that records the value of postage remaining unused in that postage meter; (*soustracteur*)

***manufacturer*** means a manufacturer of postage meters and includes an agent resident in Canada of a manufacturer of postage meters that carries on business outside Canada; (*fabricant*)

***postage indicia impression*** means the printed impression made by a postage indicia impression die; (*empreinte d'affranchissement*)

***postage indicia impression die*** means the part of a postage meter that prints an impression showing the amount of postage, the manufacturer's identifying mark and the postage meter serial number; (*cliché de l'empreinte d'affranchissement*)

***postage meter*** means a device that prints postage meter impressions and anything authorized to be printed by section 15; (*machine à affranchir*)

***postage meter impression*** means the postage indicia impression and the postmark impression; (*empreinte de machine à affranchir*)

***postmark impression*** means the printed impression made by a postmark impression die; (*cachet postal*)

***postmark impression die*** means the part of a postage meter that prints an impression showing the place and province and the date of posting; (*cliché du cachet postal*)

***"return postage prepaid die" means the part of a postage meter that prints the words "Return postage prepaid" "***Port de retour payé"; (*cliché du port de retour payé*)

***setting postmaster*** means, in respect of a postage meter, the employee of the Corporation responsible for the post office where the descending register of the postage meter is set or verified; (*maître de poste chargé du réglage*)

***user*** means a person who uses a postage meter for the purpose of payment of postage. (*utilisateur*)




## Manufacture of Postage Meters


**3** No person shall manufacture a postage meter for use in Canada unless
- **(a)** it is designed in accordance with the requirements of the schedule; and
- **(b)** written approval to manufacture the postage meter has been obtained from the Corporation.




## Installation of Postage Meters


**4** No manufacturer shall install a postage meter for use in Canada unless he
- **(a)** has entered into a contract respecting the installation of postage meters with the Corporation; and
- **(b)** gives to the Corporation a security, in an amount specified in the contract referred to in paragraph (a), to secure funds that may become owing to the Corporation for postage set into the postage meter.




## Use of Postage Meter


**5** No person, other than a manufacturer, shall use a postage meter for the purpose of payment of postage unless that person has a lease in respect of that meter from the manufacturer.
> SOR/2000-199, s. 16(F).





## General Provisions


**6** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), no person shall set the descending register except
	- **(a)** a person authorized by the Corporation to do so; or
	- **(b)** a postal employee employed at a post office.

- **(2)** A user may set the descending register on a postage meter equipped by the manufacturer with a computerized resetting system subject to annual verification of the descending register at a post office by the setting postmaster.



**7** A postage meter shall not be set for any amount of postage before payment for that postage is received by the Corporation.



**8** Before a user moves his postage meter to a new address, he shall notify the setting postmaster and the manufacturer of the new address and the date the move is to take place.



**9** Mailable matter bearing a postage meter impression shall be posted at a post office that is indicated in the postage meter impression or at any other post office agreed to by the sender and the Corporation.
> SOR/88-440, s. 1.





## Postage Meter Impressions


**10** No person shall cause a postage meter impression to be printed on any item to be transmitted by post unless it is printed
- **(a)** directly on the mailing cover of the item;
- **(b)** on a postage meter tape affixed to the item; or
- **(c)** on any label, affixed to the item or on a part of the item, that has been approved by the Corporation for such printing.



**11** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and 16(2), a postage meter impression on an item to be transmitted by post shall show the day, month and year of posting, the post office of posting, the province of posting, the amount of postage, the postage meter serial number and the manufacturer's identification mark.

- **(2)** Postage meter impressions on addressed admail shall indicate the month and year of posting but are not required to indicate the day of posting.

- **(3)** Notwithstanding subsection (1), where the postage in respect of an item of addressed admail, presorted according to letter carrier route and posted under an agreement entered into between the sender and the Corporation pursuant to paragraph 21(a) of the [Canada Post Corporation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-10.md), is paid by means of a postage meter, the postage meter impression on the item may indicate the lowest rate of postage payable for an item of the complete posting and the sender shall pay any additional postage in cash or by cheque deposited to the sender's postage-paid-in-cash permit system account.
> SOR/88-617, s. 1; SOR/90-15, s. 1; SOR/90-796, s. 1; SOR/91-634, s. 1; SOR/2003-382, s. 13(F).




**12** Where it is not practicable for an item that is to be transmitted by post to be posted on the date shown in the postage meter impression, or where the date shown in the postage meter impression is incorrect, a second postage meter impression, bearing the correct date of posting but not bearing any postage, shall be affixed to or printed on the item in such manner as not to overlap the original postage meter impression.
> SOR/2003-382, s. 12(F).




**13** A postage meter impression on an item to be transmitted by post shall be in bright fluorescent red ink.



**14** Where it appears that the amount of postage shown on a postage meter impression has been altered by hand or otherwise, the item to which the postage meter impression is affixed shall be treated as undeliverable mail and handled in accordance with the [Undeliverable and Redirected Mail Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201298.md).
> SOR/98-558, s. 8(F).




**15** Words or symbols, including advertisements, slogans and a return address, may be printed by a postage meter on an item to be transmitted by post if they are
- **(a)** located to the left of and adjacent to the postage meter impression; and
- **(b)** approved by the Corporation.



**16** 

- **(1)** A user shall only use a return postage prepaid die in a postage meter for the prepayment of postage on items that are preaddressed reply cards, labels or envelopes that are to be mailed by senders other than the user.

- **(2)** A postage meter impression on items referred to in subsection (1) shall not show the post office of posting, the province of posting or the day, month and year of posting in the postage meter impression.




## Inspection of Postage Meters


**17** A user shall, on reasonable notice from the Corporation, make his postage meter available for inspection by the Corporation.
> SOR/88-440, s. 2.





## Surrender of Postage Meters


**18** 

- **(1)** A user shall inform the setting postmaster and the manufacturer of any defect or malfunction in a postage meter that affects the ascending or descending register as soon as the user becomes aware of that defect or malfunction.

- **(2)** Where a user
	- **(a)** observes or is notified of any malfunction in the postage meter that affects the ascending or descending register,
	- **(b)** has evidence that the inner workings of the postage meter have been tampered with, or
	- **(c)** is required to surrender a postage meter pursuant to subsection (3)
he shall cease to use and surrender the postage meter to the setting postmaster or such other person as the Corporation may designate.

- **(3)** Where the setting postmaster or such other person as the Corporation may designate
	- **(a)** believes, on reasonable grounds, that the Corporation has not received payment for any postage set into a postage meter,
	- **(b)** believes, on reasonable grounds, that a malfunction exists in a postage meter affecting the ascending or descending register, or
	- **(c)** has evidence that the inner workings of a postage meter have been tampered with,
the postmaster or other designated person may require the surrender of the postage meter by the user.

- **(4)** Where a user wishes to discontinue the use of a postage meter, he shall forthwith surrender the postage meter to the setting postmaster or such other person as the Corporation may designate.

- **(5)** Where a postage meter is surrendered to the Corporation pursuant to this section, the user of that meter shall immediately inform the manufacturer of that meter of the surrender by the user under this section.
> SOR/88-440, s. 3; SOR/2000-199, s. 17(E).




**19** 

- **(1)** Where a postage meter is surrendered pursuant to section 18, the Corporation shall, if there is no evidence of malfunction or tampering referred to in paragraph 18(2)(a) or (b) or 18(3)(b) or (c) and the Corporation has received payment for all the postage set into the postage meter,
	- **(a)** refund to the user the value of postage remaining as recorded on the descending register; and
	- **(b)** forward the postage meter to the manufacturer.

- **(2)** Where a postage meter is surrendered pursuant to section 18 and there is evidence of malfunction or tampering referred to in paragraph 18(2)(a) or (b) or 18(3)(b) or (c), or the Corporation has not received payment for all the postage inserted in the postage meter, the Corporation shall
	- **(a)** refund to the user the value of prepaid postage that remains unused in the postage meter, as determined by the Corporation's records, by audit of the postage meter records and by inspection of the postage meter by the Corporation and the manufacturer; and
	- **(b)** forward the postage meter to the manufacturer.
> SOR/98-558, s. 9(F).




**20** A user shall immediately inform the setting postmaster and the manufacturer of the loss or theft of any postage meter leased by the user.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(s. 3)**
## Specifications for the Manufacture of Postage Meters for Use in Canada
**1** Every postage meter impression shall be a graphic design consisting of
- **(a)** a postage indicia impression produced by a postage indicia impression die, and
- **(b)** a postmark impression produced by a postmark impression die
so arranged that the postmark impression is positioned adjacent to the postage indicia impression on the left side and on the same horizontal centre line.


**2** Every postage indicia impression die shall be so positioned and of such dimensions as to yield an impression that is contained completely within an area 74 mm wide by 40 mm high in the upper right corner of the front of any item of mail.


**3** Every postage indicia impression die shall show the value of the postage, the assigned serial number and, in both official languages, the identification of the meter manufacturer.


**4** Every postage indicia impression die shall be manufactured in Canada and its design shall be approved by the Corporation.


**5** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection 16(2) of these Regulations, every postmark impression shall indicate the name of the city or town and province of posting and the date of posting.

- **(2)** In the case of addressed admail referred to in subsection 11(2) of these Regulations with only the month and year indicated, the date of posting shall consist of
	- **(a)** the month, in Roman numerals, and the year, in Arabic numerals; or
	- **(b)** four consecutive Arabic numerals whereby the first two numerals represent the year and the last two numerals represent the month.

- **(3)** In the case of mail other than mail referred to in subsection (2), the date of posting shall consist of
	- **(a)** the day, in Arabic numerals, the month, in Roman numerals, and the year, in Arabic numerals; or
	- **(b)** six consecutive Arabic numerals whereby the first two numerals represent the year, the next two numerals represent the month and the last two numerals represent the day.

- **(4)** Every return postage prepaid die shall indicate only the words "Return Postage Paid" or "Port de retour payé", or both.


**6** Every postmark impression die shall be circular in outline and large enough so that the information required under section 5 may be legibly printed.


**7** Every postmark impression die shall be constructed in a manner that permits the date to be printed or omitted.


**8** A manufacturer may provide for the optional insertion of a slogan or an advertising impression die in the design of a postage meter.


**9** Every slogan or advertising impression die, where provided for, shall be constructed in such a manner that
- **(a)** it will not interfere with the normal operation of the postage meter;
- **(b)** its impression is to the left of the postmark impression and completely outside the area referred to in item 2; and
- **(c)** it can be easily installed or removed by the user.


**10** A postage indicia impression die shall not be exposed when the date of the postmark impression die is being changed or when a postmark impression die or advertising impression die is being installed or removed.


**11** Every postage meter shall be equipped with an ascending register and a descending register that maintain an accurate record of postage used or set into the postage meter.


**12** The operation of the ascending register shall be independent of the operation of the descending register.


**13** The ascending and descending registers shall be designed in such a manner as to record the actual cash value of the postage dispensed through a postage meter.


**14** Every postage meter shall contain a lock-out device that prevents further operation of that meter when
- **(a)** in the case of a mechanical postage meter, the postage in the descending register has been reduced to any amount less than the highest value that can be printed in a single impression; and
- **(b)** in the case of an electronic postage meter, the postage in the descending register has reached zero or the amount described in paragraph (a).


**15** A descending register shall be designed in a manner that permits any amount of postage within the capacity limit of the register to be easily set into or taken out of the postage meter by means of appropriate tools or procedures.


**16** The ascending and descending registers shall be arranged in a manner that permits ready verification of the recorded values without any loss of postage meter security.


**17** Every electronic postage meter shall have a memory capacity to retain ascending and descending register values for a minimum of five years under any conditions of use or storage.


**18** Every postage meter shall be a compact and readily portable unit that incorporates a postage meter impression die, ascending and descending registers and a means of activating the impression die and operating the registers.


**19** The mechanism of a postage meter shall be enclosed in a secure and durable encasement and so designed and constructed that
- **(a)** a postage meter impression cannot be obtained without a corresponding record being made in the ascending and descending registers;
- **(b)** the value shown in the ascending register cannot be changed except through normal operation of the postage meter;
- **(c)** access to the interior of the postage meter cannot be obtained without detection;
- **(d)** in the case of a mechanical postage meter,
	- **(i)** setting the meter requires the removal of a wire and lead slug seal for access to the descending register locking device, and
	- **(ii)** internal parts other than the descending register are not exposed through the access provided for setting the meter; and
- **(e)** in the case of an electronic postage meter,
	- **(i)** setting the meter requires the removal of a wire and lead slug seal or such other equally secure procedure as is approved by the Corporation, and
	- **(ii)** where the postage meter is designed to be set by the user, access to the mechanism of the postage meter can be obtained only through the use of random numerical or alphabetical combinations or other equally secure procedures approved by the Corporation.


**20** Every postage meter shall display clearly the value of postage that will be printed on the next operation.


**21** Every postage meter shall bear an indication that it conforms with the applicable standards of the Canadian Standards Association.


**22** Electronic postage meters shall have a fault detection feature that, in case of malfunction, will cause lock-out of the mechanism and prevent the printing of additional postage.
>  SOR/88-440, ss. 4, 5; SOR/90-15, s. 2; SOR/90-796, s. 2(E); SOR/91-627, s. 1; SOR/2000-199, s. 18(E); SOR/2003-382, s. 13(F).




