> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/94/755.md)

# Definition of “Small Cable Transmission System” Regulations 

**SOR/94-755**

Enabling authorities: 
- [COPYRIGHT ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-42.md)

Date registered: 6 December 1994

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Industry, Science and Technology and the Minister of Communications, pursuant to subsection 67.2(1.2)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Copyright Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-42.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations defining “small cable transmission system” for the purpose of subsection 67.2(1.1) of the Copyright Act.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1993, c. 23, s. 4(1)<br />



**1** [Repealed, SOR/2005-148, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***licence***[Repealed, SOR/2005-148, s. 3]

***licensed area***[Repealed, SOR/2005-148, s. 3]

***premises*** means
- **(a)** a dwelling, including a single-unit residence or a single unit within a multiple-unit residence, or
- **(b)** a room in a commercial or institutional building. (*local*)

***service area*** means an area in which premises served in accordance with the laws and regulations of Canada by a cable transmission system are located. (*zone de service*)
> SOR/2005-148, s. 3.





## Small Cable Transmission System


**3** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) to (4) and section 4, ***small cable transmission system*** means a cable transmission system that transmits a signal, with or without a fee, to not more than 2,000 premises in the same service area. 

- **(2)** For the purpose of subsection (1), where a cable transmission system is included in the same unit as one or more other cable transmission systems, the number of premises to which the cable transmission system transmits a signal is deemed to be equal to the total number of premises to which all cable transmission systems included in that unit transmit a signal.

- **(3)** For the purpose of subsection (2), a cable transmission system is included in the same unit as one or more other cable transmission systems where
	- **(a)** they are owned or directly or indirectly controlled by the same person or group of persons; and
	- **(b)** their service areas are each less than 5 km distant, at some point, from at least one other among them, and those service areas would constitute a series of contiguous service areas, in a linear or non-linear configuration, were it not for that distance. 

- **(4)** Subsection (2) does not apply to a cable transmission system that was included in a unit on December 31, 1993.
> SOR/2005-148, s. 4.




**4** The definition set out in subsection 3(1) does not include a cable transmission system that is a master antenna system if it is located within the service area of another cable transmission system that transmits a signal, with or without a fee, to more than 2,000 premises in that service area. 
> SOR/2005-148, s. 5.



