> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/94/106.md)

# Order Authorizing the Minister of Communications to Prescribe By Order the Fees to be Paid by Users or Classes of Users of a Service or Facility of the National Archives of Canada

**SI/94-106**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 24 August 1994

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Communications and the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 19(1)(b)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), is pleased hereby

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 6<br />

**(a)** to revoke the Minister of Communications (National Archives of Canada) Authority to Prescribe Fees Order, made by Order in Council P.C. 1989-1595 of August 24, 1989<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[**]</a></sup>; and

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: SI/89-181, 1989 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 4000<br />

**(b)** to make the annexed Order authorizing the Minister of Communications to prescribe by order the fees to be paid by users or classes of users of a service or facility of the National Archives of Canada, in substitution therefor.




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Minister of Communications (Library and Archives of Canada) Authority to Prescribe Fees Order.
> 2004, c. 11, subpar. 52(5) and (6).





## Authorization


**2** The Minister of Communications is hereby authorized to prescribe by order the fees to be paid by users or classes of users of a service or facility of the Library and Archives of Canada.
> 2004, c. 11, subpar. 52(5) and (6).





## Terms and Conditions


**3** The fees referred to in section 2 shall be determined in accordance with the Treasury Board Policy on External User Charges for Goods, Services, Property Rights and Privileges, issued in August 1986 and revised in December 1989.


