> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/94/87.md)

# Order Authorizing the Minister of Communications to Prescribe, By Order, the Fees to be Paid By Users for Whom the National Library Provides Certain Services

**SI/94-87**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 27 July 1994

----------

Whereas, pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of the [Public Service Rearrangement and Transfer of Duties Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-34.md), all the powers, duties and functions referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) of Order in Council P.C. 1993-1900 of November 4, 1993<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> were transferred from the Secretary of State of Canada to the Minister of Communications;

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: SI/93-200, 1993 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 3995<br />

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Communications and the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 19(1)(b)<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), is pleased hereby

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 6<br />

**(a)** to revoke Orders in Council P.C. 1978-1060 of April 6, 1978<sup><a href='#footnote3_e'>[***]</a></sup>, P.C. 1979-700 of March 8, 1979<sup><a href='#footnote4_e'>[****]</a></sup>, P.C. 1986-696 of March 20, 1986<sup><a href='#footnote5_e'>[*****]</a></sup>, and P.C. 1986-698 of March 20, 1986<sup><a href='#footnote6_e'>[******]</a></sup>; and

<a name='footnote3_e'><sup>***</sup></a>: SI/78-66, 1978 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1973<br />

<a name='footnote4_e'><sup>****</sup></a>: SI/79-55, 1979 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1129<br />

<a name='footnote5_e'><sup>*****</sup></a>: SI/86-42, 1986 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1385<br />

<a name='footnote6_e'><sup>******</sup></a>: SI/86-43, 1986 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1386<br />

**(b)** to make the annexed Order authorizing the Minister of Communications to prescribe, by order, the fees to be paid by users for whom the National Library provides certain services.




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Minister of Communications (Library and Archives of Canada) Authority to Prescribe Fees Order.
> 2004, c. 11, subpar. 52(5) and (6).





## Authorization


**2** The Minister of Communications is authorized to prescribe, by order, subject to section 3, the fees to be paid by users for whom the Library and Archives of Canada provides the following services:
- **(a)** information systems services;
- **(b)** bibliographic services;
- **(c)** reprographic services; and
- **(d)** local delivery services.
> 2004, c. 11, subpar. 52(5) and (6).





## Fee


**3** The fee to be paid by users for whom the Library and Archives of Canada provides a service is to be determined in accordance with the Treasury Board publication on External User Charges for Goods, Services, Property, Rights and Privileges, issued in August 1986 and revised in December 1989.
> 2004, c. 11, subpar. 52(5) and (6).



