> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2000/108.md)

# Export Control List Notification Regulations

**SOR/2000-108**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADIAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md)

Date registered: 23 March 2000

----------

Whereas, pursuant to subsection 332(1) of the [Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, the Minister of the Environment published in the Canada Gazette, Part I, on December 11, 1999, a copy of the proposed Export Control List Notification Regulations, substantially in the annexed form, and persons were given an opportunity to file comments with respect to the Regulations or to file a notice of objection requesting that a board of review be established and stating the reasons for the objection;

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1999, c. 33<br />

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Health, pursuant to subsection 102(1) of the [Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md)<sup>[a]</sup>, hereby makes the annexed Export Control List Notification Regulations.




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md). (*Loi*)

***CAS registry number*** means the identification number assigned to a chemical substance by the Chemical Abstracts Service Division of the American Chemical Society. (*numéro d’enregistrement CAS*)

***Export Control List*** means the Export Control List in Schedule 3 to the Act. (*Liste des substances d’exportation contrôlée*)

***shipping document*** means a document that relates to the export of a substance and contains information on its handling, offer for transport or transport and that describes the substance or contains information relating to it. (*document d’expédition*)




## Notice of Export


**2** 

- **(1)** The notice to be provided under subsection 101(1) of the Act shall, for proposed exports of a substance in a given year, be provided at least once in respect of all the proposed exports in that year and shall contain, for each export, the following information:
	- **(a)** the name, address and phone number of the exporter;
	- **(b)** the name of the substance set out in the Export Control List;
	- **(c)** the country of destination; and
	- **(d)** the expected date of export and quantity of the substance.

- **(2)** The notice under subsection (1) shall be sent by facsimile communication or registered mail at least seven days before the date of the first export indicated in the notice.

- **(3)** The exporter shall notify the Minister in writing of any corrections to be made to the information provided in the notice within 30 days after learning of them.




## Annual Report


**3** 

- **(1)** Every person who exports a substance specified in the Export Control List in a particular year shall provide the Minister, on or before January 31 of the following year, with a report that contains for each export
	- **(a)** the name of the substance as it appears in the Export Control List, the common name and trade name, if known, the CAS registry number of the substance if the number is specified in the Export Control List, the commodity code from the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, and the name of the preparation, if known;
	- **(b)** the date of export and the actual quantity of the substance exported;
	- **(c)** the country of destination; and
	- **(d)** the name and address of the importer.

- **(2)** The exporter shall keep, at the exporter’s principal place of business in Canada, a copy of the report and copies of all shipping documents relating to the exports mentioned in it for a period of five years.




## Repeal


**4** The Toxic Substances Export Notification Regulations<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup> are repealed.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/92-634<br />




## Coming into Force


**5** These Regulations come into force on March 31, 2000.


