> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2000/111.md)

# Canadian Aviation Security Regulations

**SOR/2000-111**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AERONAUTICS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)

Date registered: 23 March 2000

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to subsection 4.3(2)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and sections 4.7<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup> and 4.9<sup><a href='#footnotec_e'>[c]</a></sup> of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), hereby makes the annexed Canadian Aviation Security Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: R.S., c. 33 (1st Supp.), s. 1<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 4, s. 5<br />

<a name='footnotec_e'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 4, s. 7<br />




**PART 1** 
## General Provisions



### Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***accepted cargo*** means any cargo in respect of which an air waybill or other similar control document is issued. (*fret accepté*)

***Act*** means the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md). (*Loi*)

***aerodrome operator*** means
- **(a)** in the case of an aerodrome that is not an airport and that is used by an air carrier, the person in charge of the aerodrome, and includes an employee, an agent or a representative of the person in charge of the aerodrome;
- **(b)** in the case of an airport, the holder of the Canadian aviation document issued in respect of the airport or the person in charge of the airport, and includes an employee, an agent or a representative of the holder of the Canadian aviation document; and
- **(c)** in the case of an aerodrome or part of an aerodrome that is operated by the Minister of National Defence and used by an air carrier, the person in charge of commercial air service operations at the aerodrome. (*exploitant d’un aérodrome*)

***Airport Restricted Area Access Clearance Security Measures*** [Repealed, SOR/2006-340, s. 1]

***biometric template*** means a template that is generated by algorithms that encode an identifiable physiological or behavioural characteristic of a person. (*modèle biométrique*)

***carry-on baggage*** means baggage and personal belongings to which a person has or will have access on board an aircraft. (*bagages de cabine*)

***CATSA*** means the Canadian Air Transport Security Authority established under subsection 5(1) of the [Canadian Air Transport Security Authority Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%209,%20s.%202.md). (*ACSTA*)

***checked baggage*** means any baggage and personal belongings in respect of which a baggage tag is issued after the baggage and personal belongings are accepted for transportation. (*bagages enregistrés*)

***combination code*** means a series of numbers or letters, or both, that is assigned by, or under the authority of, the aerodrome operator to a person, which series, when entered into mechanical or electronic equipment on or near a door, gate or other device, unlocks or releases the door, gate or other device and permits access to a restricted area. (*code d’accès*)

***crew member*** means a person assigned to duty on an aircraft during flight time by the operator of the aircraft. (*membre d’équipage*)

***escort officer*** means
- **(a)** a peace officer; and
- **(b)** any person authorized by the federal government or a provincial government or any of their agencies to escort a person in custody on a flight. (*agent d’escorte*)

***firearm*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md). (*arme à feu*)

***general list of prohibited items*** means Part 1 of TP 14628, which lists or describes goods that
- **(a)** could pose a threat to aviation security;
- **(b)** are prohibited as carry-on baggage by the governments of other countries; or
- **(c)** are identified by the International Civil Aviation Organization as items that must never be carried in the cabin of an aircraft or taken into a restricted area. (*liste générale des articles interdits*)

***incendiary device*** means an object, other than a match or pocket lighter, that is fabricated with combustible materials and designed to cause fire damage to property or inflict burn injuries on individuals. (*engin incendiaire*)

***key*** means a key, card or other device, including a functionality that can be added to a restricted area identity card, that is designed to allow for entry into a restricted area and is issued to an individual by, or under the authority of, an aerodrome operator. (*clé*)

***Minister*** means the Minister of Transport. (*ministre*)

***operator of an aircraft*** means the person who has possession of the aircraft as owner, lessee or otherwise. (*utilisateur d’un aéronef*)

***peace officer*** means
- **(a)** a member of the Correctional Service of Canada who is designated as a peace officer under Part I of the [Corrections and Conditional Release Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1992/c.%2020.md) and any other officer or permanent employee of a prison other than a penitentiary as defined in Part I of the [Corrections and Conditional Release Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1992/c.%2020.md);
- **(b)** a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, a police officer or a police constable;
- **(c)** any person who is designated by the Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness, the Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or a provincial minister as a peace officer for the purpose of the preservation and maintenance of the public peace at an aerodrome;
- **(d)** an officer who is enforcing any provision of the [Immigration and Refugee Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2027.md), or of any regulations, warrant, order or direction made under that Act, respecting the arrest, detention or removal from Canada of any person; and
- **(e)** an officer or non-commissioned member of the Canadian Forces who is appointed as a member of the military police under regulations for the purposes of section 156 of the [National Defence Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/N/N-5.md). (*agent de la paix*)

***personal identification code*** means a series of numbers or letters, or both, that is chosen by a person or assigned by, or under the authority of, the aerodrome operator to a person, which series, when entered into or placed near mechanical or electronic equipment on or near a door, gate or other device, unlocks or releases the door, gate or other device and permits access to a restricted area. (*code d’identification personnel*)

***restricted area*** means any area of an aerodrome that is identified as an area to which access is restricted to authorized persons. (*zone réglementée*)

***restricted area access point*** means a point in a security barrier at which an access control system is in place that controls access to a restricted area from a non-restricted area. (*point d’accès aux zones réglementées*)

***restricted area identity card*** means a restricted area pass issued by or under the authority of the aerodrome operator of an aerodrome listed in Schedule 2. (*carte d’identité de zone réglementée*)

***restricted area pass*** means a pass issued by or under the authority of an aerodrome operator to a person who requires ongoing access to restricted areas as part of their employment. (*laissez-passer de zone réglementée*)

***screening***[Repealed, SOR/2009-292, s. 1]

***screening authority*** means a person responsible for the screening of persons and goods. (*administration de contrôle*)

***screening officer*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Canadian Air Transport Security Authority Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%209,%20s.%202.md). (*agent de contrôle*)

***security barrier*** means a physical structure or natural feature used to prevent or deter access by unauthorized persons to a restricted area. (*enceinte de sûreté*)

***specific list of prohibited items*** means Part 2 of TP 14628, which lists flights or classes of flights that require additional screening for reasons respecting elevated threat conditions or the harmonization of screening rules and which lists or describes, for each flight or class of flight, goods that are supplemental to the goods listed or described in the general list of prohibited items. (*liste spécifique des articles interdits*)

***sterile area*** means a restricted area, including any passenger loading bridges attached to it, that is used to segregate the following persons from other persons at the aerodrome:
- **(a)** passengers who have been screened;
- **(b)** passengers who are exempted from screening in accordance with an aviation security regulation, a security measure, an emergency direction or an interim order; and
- **(c)** other persons who are authorized to be in the area by the aerodrome operator. (*zone stérile*)

***TP 14628*** means the document entitled Prohibited Items Lists, published by the Department of Transport in December 2006, as amended from time to time. (*TP 14628*)

***weapon*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md). (*arme*) 
> 2001, c. 27, s. 273; SOR/2002-188, s. 1; SOR/2004-16, s. 1; SOR/2006-340, s. 1; SOR/2009-292, s. 1.





### Application


**2** 

- **(1)** Parts 1 to 4 apply to
	- **(a)** persons at an aerodrome;
	- **(b)** persons on board an aircraft;
	- **(c)** persons who provide services to an air carrier that are related to the transportation by air of passengers or goods;
	- **(d)** air carriers;
	- **(e)** aerodrome operators serving air carriers;
	- **(f)** screening authorities; and
	- **(g)** screening officers.

- **(2)** Part 4 also applies to operators of aircraft who are not air carriers.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 2.





**PART 2** 
## Aviation Security



### Screening Officers


**3** 

- **(1)** A screening officer must not screen persons or goods unless the screening officer
	- **(a)** is at least 18 years of age;
	- **(b)** is a Canadian citizen or permanent resident as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Immigration and Refugee Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2027.md);
	- **(c)** is able to express themselves effectively both orally and in writing in one or both official languages;
	- **(d)** has a security clearance; and
	- **(e)** meets the minimum standards set out in the Designation Standards for Screening Officers, published by the Department of Transport in January 2000, as amended from time to time.

- **(2)** A screening authority must ensure that any person who acts or will act as a screening officer for it or on its behalf meets the requirements set out in subsection (1).

- **(3)** A screening authority must not permit a screening officer to screen persons or goods for it or on its behalf unless the screening officer meets the requirements set out in subsection (1).
> SOR/2002-188, s. 3; SOR/2004-16, s. 2; SOR/2009-292, s. 2.





### Official Languages


**4** At the airports that are listed in Schedule 1 and at all aerodromes where there is a significant demand from at least 5% of the travelling public for services in either official language within the meaning of the [Official Languages (Communications with and Services to the Public) Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/92/48.md), a screening authority must
- **(a)** carry out screening by means that allow effective communication with members of the public in the official language of their choice; and
- **(b)** provide in both official languages any printed or pre-recorded material that is used in respect of screening.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 2.





### Carriage of Weapons, Explosive Substances and Incendiary Devices During Screening


**5** 

- **(1)** A person must not submit to a screening or to the screening of goods in their possession or control while they are carrying or have access to a weapon, an explosive substance or an incendiary device.

- **(2)** A person referred to in section 25, 27 or 28 may submit to a screening or to the screening of goods in their possession or control while they are carrying or have access to a weapon, a firearm or ammunition.

- **(3)** A person referred to in section 29 may submit to a screening or to the screening of goods in their possession or control while they are carrying or have access to an explosive substance or an incendiary device.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 4; SOR/2004-16, s. 3; SOR/2009-292, s. 2.





### Screening for Prohibited Items


**6** Sections 7 to 8.2 apply in respect of aerodromes listed in the schedule to the [CATSA Aerodrome Designation Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2002/180.md).
> SOR/2002-188, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 2.




**7** 

- **(1)** If an aviation security regulation, a security measure, an emergency direction or an interim order requires a person to be screened, a screening authority must not permit the person to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into a sterile area unless the screening authority ensures that the person is not in possession or control of any goods that
	- **(a)** are listed or described in the general list of prohibited items; or
	- **(b)** pose an immediate threat to aviation security.

- **(2)** If the sterile area is for passengers for a flight or class of flight that is listed in the specific list of prohibited items, the screening authority must not permit the person to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into the area unless the screening authority also ensures that the person is not in possession or control of any goods that are listed or described in that list for that flight or class of flight.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 4; SOR/2004-16, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 2.




**8** A screening authority may permit a person in possession or control of a weapon, an explosive substance or an incendiary device to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into a sterile area if the person is carrying or has access to the weapon, explosive substance or incendiary device in accordance with these Regulations, a security measure, an emergency direction or an interim order.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 2.




**8.1** A screening authority may permit a person in possession or control of goods listed or described in the general list of prohibited items to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into a sterile area if the goods are medically necessary and the person declares them to the screening authority.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 2.




**8.2** A screening authority may permit a health care professional in possession or control of a medical kit that contains goods listed or described in the general list of prohibited items to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into a sterile area if the screening authority ensures that the kit does not include sharp or cutting instruments.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 2.




**9** [Reserved]




### Circumventing Screening


**10** If an aviation security regulation, a security measure, an emergency direction or an interim order requires a person or any goods in their possession or control to be screened, no person may assist that person in circumventing the screening.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 6; SOR/2004-16, s. 5; SOR/2009-292, s. 2.





### False Declarations


**11** A person who is at an aerodrome or on board an aircraft must not falsely declare that
- **(a)** they are carrying a weapon, an explosive substance, an incendiary device or any other item that could be used to jeopardize the security of an aerodrome or aircraft or that such an item is contained in goods in their possession or control or in goods that they have tendered or are tendering for screening or transportation; or
- **(b)** another person who is at an aerodrome or on board an aircraft is carrying a weapon, an explosive substance, an incendiary device or any other item that could be used to jeopardize the security of an aerodrome or aircraft or that such an item is contained in goods in the other person’s possession or control or in goods that the other person has tendered or is tendering for screening or transportation.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 6; SOR/2004-16, s. 5; SOR/2009-292, s. 2.




**12** [Reserved]



**13** [Reserved]




### Sale, Carriage and Transportation of Weapons, Explosive Substances and Incendiary Devices


**14** A person must not sell or offer for sale in a restricted area a weapon, a model or replica of a weapon, an explosive substance or an incendiary device.



**15** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 19, subsections 25(1) and 27(2) and section 28, a person must not carry, transport or have access to a weapon at an aerodrome.

- **(2)** Subject to subsections 25(2) and 27(1), a person must not carry or have access to a weapon on board an aircraft.

- **(3)** Subject to subsections 29(1) and (2), a person must not carry, transport or have access to an explosive substance or incendiary device at an aerodrome.

- **(4)** A person other than an air carrier must not carry or have access to an explosive substance or incendiary device on board an aircraft.



**16** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections 25(2) and 27(1), an air carrier must not allow a person who is on board an aircraft to have access to a weapon.

- **(2)** An air carrier must not allow a person who is on board an aircraft to carry or have access to an explosive substance or an incendiary device.



**17** 

- **(1)** A person must not transport or tender for transportation by an air carrier goods that contain a loaded firearm.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection 29(3), a person must not transport or tender for transportation by an air carrier goods that contain an explosive substance, other than ammunition, or an incendiary device.



**18** 

- **(1)** An air carrier must not knowingly allow a person to transport goods that contain a loaded firearm.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection 29(3), an air carrier must not knowingly allow a person to transport goods that contain an explosive substance, other than ammunition, or an incendiary device.



**19** A person may carry or have access to an unloaded firearm at an aerodrome for the purpose of transporting it by air as checked baggage or accepted cargo.



**20** A person may tender, to an air carrier for subsequent acceptance and transportation, baggage or cargo that contains an unloaded firearm if the person declares to the air carrier that the firearm is unloaded.



**21** An air carrier may allow a person who has complied with section 20 to transport checked baggage or accepted cargo that contains an unloaded firearm.



**22** An air carrier that transports an unloaded firearm that is contained in checked baggage or accepted cargo must store the firearm in the aircraft so that it is not accessible to any person on board the aircraft other than crew members.



**23** 

- **(1)** A peace officer referred to in subsection 25(2) who carries or has access to a firearm on board an aircraft must not consume any alcoholic beverage.

- **(2)** An employee referred to in subsection 27(1) who has access to a firearm on board an aircraft must not consume any alcoholic beverage.



**24** An air carrier must not provide any alcoholic beverage to a person who carries or has access to a firearm on board an aircraft.



**25** 

- **(1)** A peace officer may carry or have access to a weapon at an aerodrome while in the performance of their duties.

- **(2)** An air carrier may allow a peace officer to carry or have access to an unloaded firearm on board an aircraft if
	- **(a)** the officer, while in the performance of the officer’s duties, requires access to the firearm immediately before, during or immediately after the flight;
	- **(b)** the officer informs the air carrier, at least two hours before the aircraft leaves the aerodrome or, in an emergency as soon as possible before the departure of the flight, that a firearm will be on board;
	- **(c)** the officer shows a representative of the air carrier identification issued by the organization employing the peace officer that consists of the peace officer’s full facial picture and signature and the signature of an authorized representative of the organization employing the peace officer and completes the form used by the air carrier to authorize the carriage of firearms on board an aircraft; and
	- **(d)** the air carrier verifies the identification referred to in paragraph (c) before the peace officer
		- **(i)** enters a restricted area from which the peace officer may board the aircraft, or
		- **(ii)** boards the aircraft, if the aerodrome does not have a restricted area from which the peace officer may board the aircraft.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 3(E).




**26** 

- **(1)** If a peace officer needs to carry or have access to a firearm on board an aircraft, the air carrier must, before departure, inform
	- **(a)** the pilot-in-command of the aircraft by means of the form referred to in paragraph 25(2)(c); and
	- **(b)** subject to subsection (2), the screening authority, the crew members assigned to the flight or the aircraft and any other peace officer on board the aircraft.

- **(1.1)** The screening authority must inform all the screening officers with whom the peace officer will have contact that the peace officer is carrying or will have access to a firearm on board the aircraft.

- **(2)** If a peace officer who is carrying or has access to a firearm on board an aircraft is engaged in an undercover operation and requests that the air carrier not reveal the officer’s presence to any person other than the pilot-in-command on board the aircraft, the air carrier must not reveal the presence of the peace officer.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 7.




**27** 

- **(1)** An air carrier may allow the pilot-in-command of an aircraft or an employee of a federal or provincial department or agency that is engaged in wildlife control to have access to an unloaded firearm on board an aircraft if the firearm is necessary for survival purposes.

- **(2)** A pilot-in-command of an aircraft or an employee of a federal or provincial department or agency that is engaged in wildlife control may carry or have access to an unloaded firearm at an aerodrome if the firearm will be transported in accordance with subsection (1).



**28** A person, other than a peace officer, who holds a licence to carry a firearm that is issued under the laws of Canada may carry or have access to a firearm at an aerodrome if the person is engaged
- **(a)** in the protection of persons or property at the aerodrome; or
- **(b)** by the aerodrome operator for the control of animals at the aerodrome.



**29** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator may allow a person to carry or have access to explosive substances or incendiary devices at an aerodrome if
	- **(a)** the explosive substances or incendiary devices are to be used at the aerodrome
		- **(i)** for excavation, demolition or construction,
		- **(ii)** in fireworks displays,
		- **(iii)** by persons operating explosives detection equipment or handling explosive detection dogs,
		- **(iv)** by a police service, or
		- **(v)** by military personnel; and
	- **(b)** the aerodrome operator has reasonable grounds to believe that the safety of the aerodrome and persons and aircraft at the aerodrome will not be jeopardized by the presence of the explosive substances or incendiary devices at the aerodrome.

- **(2)** A person who is transporting explosive substances or incendiary devices or tendering them for transportation by an air carrier may have access to them at an aerodrome.

- **(3)** A person may transport or tender for transportation by an air carrier on board an aircraft explosive substances or incendiary devices if the person notifies the air carrier before the explosive substances or incendiary devices arrive at the aerodrome.




### Persons in the Custody of an Escort Officer


**30** 

- **(1)** In this section, ***organization responsible for the person in custody*** does not include a person or an organization that provides escort officer services under a contract for remuneration. (*organisme responsable de la personne sous garde*)

- **(2)** An air carrier must not transport a person in the custody of an escort officer on board an aircraft unless
	- **(a)** the organization responsible for the person in custody has provided to the air carrier a written confirmation that the organization has assessed the pertinent facts and determined whether the person in custody is a maximum, medium or minimum risk to the safety of the air carrier and aerodrome operations and the travelling public;
	- **(b)** the air carrier and the organization responsible for escorting the person in custody have agreed on the number of escort officers necessary to escort that person, which number must be at least
		- **(i)** two escort officers to escort each person who is a maximum risk,
		- **(ii)** one escort officer to escort each person who is a medium risk, and
		- **(iii)** one escort officer to escort not more than two persons who are a minimum risk;
	- **(c)** the person in custody is escorted by the agreed number of escort officers;
	- **(d)** the organization responsible for the person in custody has given a written notice to the air carrier at least two hours or, in an emergency as soon as possible, before the departure of the flight, stating
		- **(i)** the identity of the escort officer and the person in custody and the reasons why the person requires an escort,
		- **(ii)** the level of risk that the person in custody represents to the safety of the public, and
		- **(iii)** the flight on which the person in custody will be transported;
	- **(e)** the escort officer shows a representative of the air carrier identification issued by the organization responsible for the person in custody or the organization employing the escort officer that consists of the escort officer’s full facial picture and signature and the signature of an authorized representative of the organization and completes the form used by the air carrier to authorize the transportation of the person in custody; and
	- **(f)** the air carrier verifies the identification required by paragraph (e) before the escort officer
		- **(i)** enters a restricted area from which the escort officer may board the aircraft, or
		- **(ii)** boards the aircraft, if the aerodrome does not have a restricted area from which the escort officer may board the aircraft.

- **(3)** An escort officer must not escort a person in custody on board an aircraft unless the escort officer
	- **(a)** provides the aerodrome operator with a copy of the written notice referred to in paragraph (2)(d) at least two hours or, in an emergency as soon as possible, before the departure of the flight; and
	- **(b)** shows a representative of the air carrier the identification referred to in paragraph (2)(e).

- **(4)** An air carrier that transports a person in custody who is a maximum risk to the public must not transport any other person in custody on board the aircraft.



**31** 

- **(1)** An escort officer who is a peace officer and escorts a person in custody during a flight must
	- **(a)** remain with the person at all times;
	- **(b)** immediately before boarding the aircraft, search the person in custody and their carry-on baggage for weapons or other items that could be used to jeopardize flight safety;
	- **(c)** search the area surrounding the aircraft seat assigned to the person in custody for weapons or other items that could be used to jeopardize flight safety; and
	- **(d)** carry restraining devices that can be used to restrain the person, if necessary.

- **(2)** If an escort officer who is not a peace officer escorts a person in custody, the air carrier must, immediately before the person boards the aircraft, cause the person in custody and their carry-on baggage to be screened for weapons or other items that could be used to jeopardize flight safety.

- **(3)** An escort officer who is not a peace officer and who escorts a person in custody during a flight must
	- **(a)** remain with the person at all times;
	- **(b)** ensure that a screening of the person and their carry-on baggage for weapons or other items that could be used to jeopardize flight safety is conducted before the escort officer and the person
		- **(i)** enter a restricted area from which they may board the aircraft, or
		- **(ii)** board the aircraft, if the aerodrome does not have a restricted area from which they may board the aircraft;
	- **(c)** search the area surrounding the aircraft seat assigned to the person in custody for weapons or other items that could be used to jeopardize flight safety; and
	- **(d)** carry restraining devices that can be used to restrain the person, if necessary.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 8; SOR/2009-292, s. 4.




**32** A person in custody and the escort officer who is escorting the person must not consume any alcoholic beverage on board an aircraft.



**33** An air carrier must not provide any alcoholic beverage to a person in custody or to the escort officer who is escorting the person on board an aircraft.



**34** An air carrier must not allow a person in custody to be seated adjacent to an exit on an aircraft.




**PART 3** 
## Aerodrome Security



### Interpretation


**34.1** [Repealed, SOR/2006-340, s. 4]



**35** Nothing in this Part requires a person who is authorized by the Minister to carry out an inspection under subsection 8.7(1) of the Act to be in possession of a restricted area identity card or other document issued or approved by an aerodrome operator as authorization for the person to enter or remain in a restricted area in order to carry out an inspection.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**35.1** Credentials issued by the Minister to a person who is authorized by the Minister to carry out an inspection under subsection 8.7(1) of the Act are not a restricted area identity card even if they are compatible with the identity verification system or an aerodrome operator’s access control system.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Application


**36** 

- **(1)** This Part applies in respect of aerodromes listed in Schedule 2.

- **(2)** Sections 51 to 51.5 and 53 also apply in respect of aerodromes listed in the schedule to the [CATSA Aerodrome Designation Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2002/180.md).
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 5.





### Identity Verification System


**37** 

- **(1)** CATSA must implement and maintain an identity verification system that is able to automatically verify
	- **(a)** that a person in possession of a restricted area identity card is the person to whom the card has been issued; and
	- **(b)** whether a restricted area identity card is active or has been deactivated.

- **(2)** The verification referred to in paragraph (1)(a) must be carried out by an on-site matching of biometric data provided by the person and a biometric template stored on the restricted area identity card.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**37.1** 

- **(1)** The Minister, an aerodrome operator and CATSA may disclose to each other any information that is necessary for the proper operation of the identity verification system.

- **(2)** Despite subsection (1), an aerodrome operator must not disclose to CATSA the identity of an applicant for a restricted area identity card or the identity of a person to whom a restricted area identity card has been issued except if the aerodrome operator grants CATSA access to its databases in order to maintain or repair the identity verification system and CATSA’s access to the person’s identity is incidental to the maintenance or repairs.

- **(3)** CATSA must not collect, use, disclose or retain the identity of an applicant for a restricted area identity card or the identity of a person to whom a restricted area identity card has been issued.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Information to Be Displayed on Restricted Area Identity Cards


**38** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator must ensure that the following information is displayed on each restricted area identity card that it issues:
	- **(a)** the full name of the person to whom the card is issued;
	- **(b)** the height of the person to whom the card is issued;
	- **(c)** a photograph depicting a frontal view of the face of the person to whom the card is issued;
	- **(d)** the expiry date of the card;
	- **(e)** the name of the aerodrome where the card is issued;
	- **(f)** the name of the employer of the person to whom the card is issued if that person has a single employer;
	- **(g)** the terms “multi-employer” and “employeur multiple” if the person to whom the card is issued has more than one employer;
	- **(h)** the occupation of the person to whom the card is issued if that person has a single occupation; and
	- **(i)** the terms “multi-occupation” and “emplois multiples” if the person to whom the card is issued has more than one occupation.

- **(2)** A restricted area identity card expires no later than five years after the day on which it is issued or on the day on which the security clearance of the person to whom the card is issued expires, whichever is earlier.

- **(3)** Despite subsection (2), a restricted area identity card that is issued to a person who requires access to restricted areas at more than one aerodrome but who is not a crew member or a person authorized by the Minister to carry out an inspection under subsection 8.7(1) of the Act expires no later than one year after the day on which it is issued or on the day on which the person’s security clearance expires, whichever is earlier.

- **(4)** All information that is displayed on a restricted area identity card must be in both official languages.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Issue of Restricted Area Identity Cards


**39** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator must not issue a restricted area identity card to a person unless the person
	- **(a)** applies in writing;
	- **(b)** is sponsored in writing by their employer;
	- **(c)** has a security clearance;
	- **(d)** consents in writing to the collection, use, retention, disclosure and destruction of information for the purposes of this Part; and
	- **(e)** confirms that the information displayed on the card is correct.

- **(2)** An aerodrome operator must not issue a restricted area identity card to a person unless the card has been activated.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**39.1** A person must not provide false information for the purpose of obtaining a restricted area identity card.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**39.2** An employer must not
- **(a)** sponsor an employee who does not require ongoing access to restricted areas in the course of their employment; or
- **(b)** knowingly sponsor an employee for more than one restricted area identity card at a time.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**39.3** An aerodrome operator must not issue more than one restricted area identity card at a time to a person.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**39.4** Before replacing a lost, stolen or non-functional restricted area identity card, an aerodrome operator must ensure that
- **(a)** the person applying for the replacement card is the person to whom the lost, stolen or non-functional card has been issued; and
- **(b)** the person still has a security clearance.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**40** Before collecting information from an applicant under this Part, an aerodrome operator must bring the purposes for which the information is collected to the applicant’s attention as well as how the information will be used, retained, disclosed and destroyed.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**40.1** 

- **(1)** In order to create a restricted area identity card for an applicant, an aerodrome operator must collect the following information from the applicant:
	- **(a)** his or her full name;
	- **(b)** his or her height;
	- **(c)** a photograph depicting a frontal view of his or her face;
	- **(d)** his or her fingerprint images and iris images;
	- **(e)** the name of his or her employer; and
	- **(f)** his or her occupation.

- **(2)** The aerodrome operator must, immediately after issuing the restricted area identity card, destroy all fingerprint images and iris images that the operator collected from the applicant and any biometric template created from those images that is not stored on the card.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**40.2** 

- **(1)** In order to allow CATSA to monitor the quality of biometric templates and in order to determine if a restricted area identity card is already active in respect of an applicant, an aerodrome operator must, before issuing the card, disclose to CATSA any biometric templates created from fingerprint images and iris images collected from the applicant. CATSA must not use the biometric templates for any other purposes.

- **(2)** CATSA must notify the Minister if it determines that there is a restricted area identity card that is already active in respect of an applicant.

- **(3)** CATSA must destroy any biometric templates that are disclosed to it in connection with an application for a restricted area identity card as soon as possible in accordance with the [Access to Information Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-1.md), the [Library and Archives of Canada Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2011.md), the [Privacy Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-21.md) and any regulations made under those acts.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**40.3** CATSA and aerodrome operators must take appropriate measures to protect information that is collected, used, retained or disclosed in accordance with this Part from loss or theft and from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, duplication or alteration.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Activation and Deactivation of Restricted Area Identity Cards


**41** CATSA must activate a restricted area identity card if the Minister informs CATSA that the applicant for the card has a security clearance and CATSA determines that there is no restricted area identity card already active in respect of the applicant.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**41.1** CATSA must immediately deactivate a restricted area identity card if the Minister or an aerodrome operator asks CATSA to deactivate the card.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**41.2** The Minister must ask CATSA to deactivate a restricted area identity card if
- **(a)** the Minister is notified under section 41.4; or
- **(b)** the security clearance of the person to whom the card has been issued is suspended or cancelled.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 6.




**41.3** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator that has issued a restricted area identity card must immediately ask CATSA to deactivate the card if
	- **(a)** the card expires;
	- **(b)** the person to whom the card has been issued or their employer informs the aerodrome operator that the card is lost, stolen or no longer functional; or
	- **(c)** the person to whom the card has been issued fails, on demand, to present or surrender the card to a screening officer.

- **(2)** An aerodrome operator must not ask CATSA to deactivate a restricted area identity card for a reason other than a reason set out in subsection (1).

- **(3)** An aerodrome operator that asks CATSA to deactivate a restricted area identity card must so notify the Minister.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**41.4** An aerodrome operator that has issued a restricted area identity card must notify the Minister immediately if
- **(a)** in the case of a person who has a single employer, the person to whom the card has been issued ceases to be employed or no longer requires ongoing access to restricted areas in the course of his or her employment; and
- **(b)** in the case of a person who has more than one employer, the person to whom the card has been issued ceases to be employed by all of his or her employers or no longer requires ongoing access to restricted areas in the course of his or her employment.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**41.5** The employer of a person to whom a restricted area identity card has been issued must immediately notify the aerodrome operator that issued the card if the person ceases to be an employee or no longer requires ongoing access to restricted areas in the course of his or her employment.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**41.6** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator that has issued a restricted area identity card must take reasonable steps to retrieve the card if it has been deactivated and must notify CATSA if the card is not retrieved.

- **(2)** If a restricted area identity card has been deactivated, the person to whom the card has been issued must immediately return it to the aerodrome operator that issued it unless the card was surrendered in accordance with this Part or was lost or stolen.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Keys, Combination Codes and Personal Identification Codes


**42** An aerodrome operator must not issue a key or assign a combination code or personal identification code to a person for a restricted area unless
- **(a)** the person is a person to whom a restricted area identity card has been issued and the card is active; or
- **(b)** the person is in possession of a document that is issued or approved by the aerodrome operator in accordance with a security measure as authorization for the person to enter or remain in the restricted area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**42.1** An aerodrome operator may add a key functionality to a restricted area identity card only if it is possible to cancel or remove the functionality without damaging or altering any other elements of the card.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**42.2** An aerodrome operator must not add to or modify a restricted area identity card in any way that might allow the disclosure to CATSA of information about the person to whom the card has been issued.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**42.3** An aerodrome operator must cancel, remove or take back a key, combination code or personal identification code for a restricted area that has been issued or assigned to a person who has been issued a restricted area identity card if
- **(a)** the person’s card has been deactivated; or
- **(b)** the person no longer requires ongoing access to the restricted area in the course of his or her employment.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Records


**43** 

- **(1)** CATSA must keep updated records respecting
	- **(a)** restricted area identity cards that have been activated;
	- **(b)** restricted area identity cards that have been deactivated;
	- **(c)** deactivated restricted area identity cards that have not been retrieved;
	- **(d)** restricted area identity cards that have been reported as lost or stolen;
	- **(e)** blank restricted area identity cards distributed to aerodrome operators; and
	- **(f)** restricted area identity cards that have been destroyed by an aerodrome operator.

- **(2)** CATSA must provide the records to the Minister on reasonable notice given by the Minister.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**43.1** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator and any person designated by the aerodrome operator to issue restricted area identity cards or keys or to administer combination codes or personal identification codes must keep updated records at the aerodrome respecting
	- **(a)** restricted area identity cards and keys that have been issued;
	- **(b)** the names of the persons to whom restricted area identity cards or keys have been issued;
	- **(c)** the names of the persons to whom combination codes or personal identification codes have been assigned;
	- **(d)** blank restricted area identity cards in the aerodrome operator’s possession;
	- **(e)** restricted area identity cards that have been deactivated;
	- **(f)** keys, combination codes or personal identification codes that have been cancelled, removed or taken back;
	- **(g)** deactivated restricted area identity cards that have not been retrieved by the aerodrome operator;
	- **(h)** restricted area identity cards that have been reported as lost or stolen;
	- **(i)** steps taken to retrieve deactivated restricted area identity cards; and
	- **(j)** compliance with section 40.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), a record respecting a restricted area identity card that has been deactivated must be retained for a period of at least one year from the day on which the card was deactivated.

- **(3)** A record respecting a restricted area identity card that has been reported as lost or stolen must be retained for a period of at least one year from the card’s expiry date.

- **(4)** The aerodrome operator must provide the records to the Minister on reasonable notice given by the Minister.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Identification of Restricted Areas


**44** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator must post signs on each restricted area access point and each security barrier, in at least both official languages, that identify each restricted area and state that entry is restricted to authorized persons.

- **(2)** The signs posted on each security barrier must be no more than 150 m apart.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Restricted Area Access Control Process


**45** An aerodrome operator must implement and maintain a restricted area access control process that uses the identity verification system.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**45.1** [Repealed, SOR/2006-340, s. 4]



**45.2** [Repealed, SOR/2006-340, s. 4]




### Control of Access to Restricted Areas


**46** A person must not enter a restricted area except through a restricted area access point.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**46.1** A person must not enter or remain in a restricted area unless the person is
- **(a)** a person to whom a restricted area identity card has been issued; or
- **(b)** in possession of a document that is issued or approved by the aerodrome operator in accordance with a security measure as authorization for the person to enter or remain in the restricted area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**46.2** 

- **(1)** A person to whom a restricted area identity card has been issued must not enter or remain in a restricted area unless
	- **(a)** they are acting in the course of their employment;
	- **(b)** the card is in their possession;
	- **(c)** the card is active; and
	- **(d)** they are in possession of a key that, if applicable, has been issued to them for the restricted area or a combination code or personal identification code that has been assigned to them for the restricted area.

- **(2)** Paragraph (1)(d) does not apply to crew members.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**46.3** A person to whom a restricted area identity card has been issued must not enter or remain in a restricted area unless they visibly display the card on their outer clothing at all times.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**46.4** An aerodrome operator must ensure that a person is not allowed to enter or remain in a restricted area unless the person is in possession of
- **(a)** an active restricted area identity card that has been issued to him or her; or
- **(b)** a document that is issued or approved by the aerodrome operator in accordance with a security measure as authorization for the person to enter or remain in the restricted area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Business Continuity Plans


**47** 

- **(1)** CATSA must develop and maintain a business continuity plan that, at a minimum, sets out how CATSA will meet the following objectives in the event that it is unable to use the identity verification system to meet the objectives set out in paragraphs (a) to (c):
	- **(a)** to receive security clearance information from the Minister;
	- **(b)** to activate and deactivate restricted area identity cards;
	- **(c)** to allow aerodrome operators to verify whether a restricted area identity card is active or has been deactivated; and
	- **(d)** to re-establish normal operations.

- **(2)** CATSA must immediately implement its plan and notify the Minister and any affected aerodrome operator if CATSA discovers that it is unable to use the identity verification system to meet the objectives set out in paragraphs (1)(a) to (c).

- **(3)** CATSA must immediately notify the Minister and any affected aerodrome operator if it discovers that it will be unable to use the identity verification system to meet the objectives set out in paragraphs (1)(a) to (c) for more than 24 hours.

- **(4)** CATSA must make its plan available to the Minister on reasonable notice given by the Minister.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 7.




**47.1** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator must develop and maintain a business continuity plan that, at a minimum, sets out how the aerodrome operator will meet the following objectives in the event that it is unable to use its restricted area access control process to meet the objective set out in paragraph (a):
	- **(a)** to meet the requirements of section 46.4; and
	- **(b)** to re-establish normal operations.

- **(2)** The aerodrome operator must immediately implement its plan and notify the Minister and CATSA if the aerodrome operator discovers that it is unable to use its restricted area access control process to meet the objective set out in paragraph (1)(a).

- **(3)** The aerodrome operator must immediately notify the Minister if it discovers that it will be unable to use its restricted area access control process to meet the objective set out in paragraph (1)(a) for more than 24 hours.

- **(4)** The aerodrome operator must make its plan available to the Minister on reasonable notice given by the Minister.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 8.




**47.2** 

- **(1)** CATSA must regularly back up any database that it uses as part of the identity verification system.

- **(2)** An aerodrome operator must regularly back up any database that it uses as part of its restricted area access control process.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Use of Restricted Area Identity Cards, Keys, Combination Codes and Personal Identification Codes


**48** 

- **(1)** No person
	- **(a)** may lend or give a restricted area identity card or a key that has been issued to them to another person;
	- **(b)** may use a restricted area identity card or a key that has been issued to them to provide access to a restricted area to another person without authorization from the aerodrome operator;
	- **(c)** other than an aerodrome operator or a person designated by the aerodrome operator, may intentionally alter or otherwise modify a restricted area identity card or a key;
	- **(d)** may use a restricted area identity card or a key that has been issued to another person;
	- **(e)** may have in their possession, without reasonable excuse, a restricted area identity card or a key that has been issued to another person;
	- **(f)** may use a counterfeit restricted area identity card or a counterfeit key; or
	- **(g)** may make a copy of a restricted area identity card or a key.

- **(2)** No person other than an aerodrome operator or a person designated by the aerodrome operator may
	- **(a)** disclose a combination code or personal identification code; or
	- **(b)** use another person’s combination code or personal identification code.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 9.




**48.1** 

- **(1)** A person to whom a restricted area identity card or a key has been issued must immediately report its loss or theft to their employer or to the aerodrome operator that issued the card or key.

- **(2)** An employer who is informed by an employee of the loss or theft of a restricted area identity card or a key must immediately report the loss or theft to the aerodrome operator that issued the card or key.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**48.2** An employer who is informed by an employee that a restricted area identity card is not functioning must immediately so notify the aerodrome operator that issued the card.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**48.3** An aerodrome operator that has issued a restricted area identity card must notify CATSA if the card is reported as lost or stolen.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Presentation and Surrender of Restricted Area Identity Cards


**49** 

- **(1)** A person in possession of a restricted area identity card who is in a restricted area must, on demand, present the card to the Minister, the aerodrome operator, the person’s employer or a peace officer.

- **(2)** A person in possession of a restricted area identity card who is being screened by a screening officer at a restricted area access point or at a location in a restricted area must, on demand, present the card to the screening officer.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**50** 

- **(1)** A person in possession of a restricted area identity card must, on demand, surrender it to the Minister, an aerodrome operator, a screening officer or a peace officer.

- **(2)** The Minister or an aerodrome operator may demand the surrender of a restricted area identity card if
	- **(a)** the card has expired or has been reported as lost or stolen;
	- **(b)** the card has been deactivated; or
	- **(c)** the surrender of the card is required in order to ensure aviation security.

- **(3)** A screening officer may demand the surrender of a restricted area identity card if
	- **(a)** the card has expired or has been reported as lost or stolen;
	- **(b)** the card has been deactivated; or
	- **(c)** the screening officer is conducting screening at a restricted area access point or at a location in a restricted area and the person who is in possession of the card refuses to submit to a screening or to the screening of goods in his or her possession or control.

- **(4)** A peace officer may demand the surrender of a restricted area identity card if
	- **(a)** the card has expired or has been reported as lost or stolen; or
	- **(b)** there is an immediate threat to aviation security, the security of any aircraft or aerodrome or other aviation facility or the security of the public, passengers or crew members and the surrender of the card is required in order to respond to the threat.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 10.




**50.1** A screening officer or a peace officer to whom a person surrenders a restricted area identity card must return the card to the aerodrome operator of the aerodrome at which the card is surrendered or the aerodrome operator that issued the card.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**50.2** An aerodrome operator to which a person surrenders a restricted area identity card must notify the Minister if the aerodrome operator demanded the surrender in accordance with paragraph 50(2)(c).
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Doors, Gates, Emergency Exits and Other Devices


**51** 

- **(1)** A lessee at an aerodrome must close and lock any door, gate or other device other than an emergency exit if
	- **(a)** the lessee has control of and responsibility for the door, gate or other device; and
	- **(b)** the door, gate or other device allows access between a restricted area and a non-restricted area.

- **(2)** A lessee at an aerodrome must institute a system, on or near an emergency exit, that prevents access by unauthorized persons to a restricted area if
	- **(a)** the lessee has control of and responsibility for the emergency exit; and
	- **(b)** the emergency exit allows access between a restricted area and a non-restricted area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**51.1** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator must close and lock any door, gate or device other than an emergency exit if
	- **(a)** the aerodrome operator has control of and responsibility for the door, gate or other device; and
	- **(b)** the door, gate or other device allows access between a restricted area and a non-restricted area.

- **(2)** An aerodrome operator must institute a system, on or near an emergency exit, that prevents access by unauthorized persons to a restricted area if
	- **(a)** the aerodrome operator has control of and responsibility for the emergency exit; and
	- **(b)** the emergency exit allows access between a restricted area and a non-restricted area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**51.2** Any person who has temporary use or control of a door, gate or other device that allows access between a restricted area and a non-restricted area must prevent access to or from the restricted area by unauthorized persons.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**51.3** Unless an authorized person is controlling access between a restricted area and a non-restricted area, a person who enters or leaves the restricted area must
- **(a)** lock the door, gate or other device that allows access to or from the restricted area; and
- **(b)** prevent access to or from the restricted area by unauthorized persons while the door, gate or other device is open or unlocked.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**51.4** A person must not prevent a door, gate or other device other than an emergency exit that allows access between a restricted area and a non-restricted area from being locked.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**51.5** A person must not open any door that is designated as an emergency exit and allows access to a restricted area unless
- **(a)** the emergency exit is a restricted area access point; or
- **(b)** there is an emergency.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Escort and Surveillance


**52** Except in the case of a passenger who has been screened or a person authorized by the Minister to carry out an inspection under subsection 8.7(1) of the Act, an aerodrome operator must ensure that any person who is in a restricted area and is not in possession of a restricted area identity card is
- **(a)** escorted by a person in possession of an active restricted area identity card that has been issued to them; or
- **(b)** in the case of a confined area, kept under surveillance by a person in possession of an active restricted area identity card that has been issued to them.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**52.1** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator must ensure that at least one escort is provided for every 10 persons who require escort.

- **(2)** An aerodrome operator must ensure that no more than 20 persons are kept under surveillance by one person at a time.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 11(F).




**52.2** 

- **(1)** A person under escort must remain with the escort while they are in a restricted area.

- **(2)** An escort must remain with the person under escort while they are in a restricted area.

- **(3)** The person who appoints an escort must
	- **(a)** inform the escort of the requirement to remain with the person under escort while they are in a restricted area; and
	- **(b)** ensure that the escort remains with the person under escort while they are in a restricted area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**52.3** An aerodrome operator must ensure that a person under escort or surveillance and any goods in their possession or control are screened at a screening checkpoint before the person enters a sterile area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4; SOR/2009-292, s. 12.




**52.4** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator is not required to place escorts or surveillance personnel in a vehicle that is in a restricted area and is carrying persons who require escort or surveillance if the vehicle travels in a convoy with an escort vehicle that contains at least one person in possession of an active restricted area identity card that has been issued to them.

- **(2)** The aerodrome operator must ensure that, if they disembark from the vehicle in a restricted area, the persons who require escort or surveillance are escorted or kept under surveillance in accordance with section 52.1.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**52.5** An aerodrome operator must ensure that at least one escort vehicle is provided for
- **(a)** every three vehicles requiring escort to or from an air terminal building apron area for a purpose other than snow removal operations;
- **(b)** every six vehicles requiring escort to or from an air terminal building apron area for snow removal operations; and
- **(c)** every six vehicles requiring escort to or from a restricted area other than an air terminal building apron area.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.





### Trespassing


**53** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), a person must not enter or remain in any part of an aerodrome that is not a public area if the person has been given notice orally, in writing or by a sign that trespassing is prohibited or that entry is limited to authorized persons.

- **(2)** An aerodrome operator or a lessee at an aerodrome who has the use of, or is responsible for, a part of the aerodrome that is not a public area may allow a person to enter or remain in that part of the aerodrome if
	- **(a)** the part of the aerodrome is not a restricted area; and
	- **(b)** the safety of the aerodrome, persons at the aerodrome and aircraft is not jeopardized.
> SOR/2006-340, s. 4.




**54** [Reserved]




**PART 4** 
## Response to Threats and Information Reporting



### Response to Threats


**55** 

- **(1)** An air carrier that is made aware of a threat against an aircraft or a flight must immediately determine whether there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of the aircraft or flight.

- **(2)** An operator of an aircraft, other than an air carrier, who is made aware of a threat against an aircraft or a flight must immediately determine whether the threat jeopardizes the security of the aircraft or flight.



**56** 

- **(1)** An air carrier that determines that there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of an aircraft or flight must immediately take all of the measures necessary to ensure the safety of the aircraft and the passengers and crew on board the aircraft, including
	- **(a)** informing the pilot-in-command, the crew members assigned to the aircraft or flight, the aerodrome operator and the appropriate police service of the nature of the threat;
	- **(b)** if the aircraft is on the ground, moving it to a place of safety at the aerodrome according to the directions of the aerodrome operator; and
	- **(c)** inspecting the aircraft and causing a screening of the passengers and goods on board the aircraft to be conducted, unless the inspection and screening are likely to jeopardize the safety of the passengers and crew members.

- **(2)** An operator of an aircraft, other than an air carrier, who determines that there is a threat that jeopardizes the security of an aircraft or flight must immediately take all of the measures necessary to ensure the safety of the aircraft and the passengers and crew on board the aircraft, including
	- **(a)** informing the pilot-in-command, the crew members assigned to the aircraft or flight, the aerodrome operator and the appropriate police service of the nature of the threat;
	- **(b)** if the aircraft is on the ground, moving it to a place of safety at the aerodrome according to the directions of the aerodrome operator; and
	- **(c)** inspecting the aircraft and causing a search of the passengers and goods on board the aircraft to be conducted, unless the inspection and search are likely to jeopardize the safety of the passengers and crew members.

- **(3)** If the aircraft is on the ground, the pilot-in-command must comply with any direction given by the aerodrome operator under paragraph (1)(b) or (2)(b) or a member of the appropriate police service, unless complying with the direction is likely to jeopardize the safety of the passengers and crew members.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 10; SOR/2009-292, s. 13.




**57** 

- **(1)** An air carrier that is made aware of a threat against a facility or part of an aerodrome under its control must immediately determine whether there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of the facility or part of the aerodrome.

- **(2)** An operator of an aircraft, other than an air carrier, that is made aware of a threat against a facility or part of an aerodrome under its control must immediately determine whether the threat jeopardizes the security of the facility or part of the aerodrome.



**58** 

- **(1)** An air carrier that determines that there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of a facility or part of an aerodrome under its control must immediately take all of the measures necessary to ensure the safety of the facility or part of the aerodrome and persons at the facility or aerodrome, including informing the aerodrome operator and the appropriate police service of the threat.

- **(2)** An operator of an aircraft, other than an air carrier, that determines that a threat jeopardizes the security of a facility or part of an aerodrome under its control must immediately take all of the measures necessary to ensure the safety of the facility or aerodrome and persons at the facility or aerodrome, including informing the aerodrome operator and the appropriate police service of the threat.



**59** An aerodrome operator who is made aware of a threat against a facility or part of the aerodrome under its control must immediately determine whether there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of the facility or part of the aerodrome.



**60** An aerodrome operator who determines that there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of the aerodrome must immediately take all of the measures necessary to ensure the safety of the aerodrome and persons at the aerodrome, including informing the appropriate police service of the nature of the threat.



**61** An aerodrome operator who is made aware of a threat against a facility or part of the aerodrome that is under the control of a person carrying on any activity at the aerodrome, other than the aerodrome operator, must immediately
- **(a)** notify the person of the nature of the threat; and
- **(b)** determine whether there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of the aerodrome.



**62** When a screening authority or any other person carrying on any activity at an aerodrome is made aware of a threat against the aerodrome, they must
- **(a)** immediately notify the aerodrome operator of the nature of the threat; and
- **(b)** assist the aerodrome operator in determining whether there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of the aerodrome.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 11.




**63** If it is determined under paragraph 61(b) or 62(b) that there is a specific threat that jeopardizes the security of the aerodrome, the aerodrome operator must immediately take all of the measures necessary to ensure the safety of the aerodrome and persons at the aerodrome, including informing the appropriate police service of the nature of the threat.




### Reporting of Security Incidents


**64** 

- **(1)** An air carrier must immediately notify the Minister when the following incidents occur, namely,
	- **(a)** the hijacking or attempted hijacking of an aircraft;
	- **(b)** the discovery, on board an aircraft, of a weapon, other than an unloaded firearm allowed under subsections 25(2) and 27(1);
	- **(c)** the discovery, on board an aircraft, of an explosive substance or an incendiary device, other than an explosive substance or incendiary device allowed on board the aircraft under subsection 29(3);
	- **(d)** an explosion on an aircraft, unless the explosion is known to be the result of an accident;
	- **(e)** a specific threat against an aircraft, a flight or a facility or part of an aerodrome under its control; or
	- **(f)** an aviation security incident that involves a peace officer in any part of an aerodrome under the air carrier’s control.

- **(2)** An air carrier must immediately notify the aerodrome operator when a weapon other than a firearm allowed under section 19, subsection 25(1) or 27(2) or section 28 is detected in any part of the aerodrome under its control.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 12.




**65** An aerodrome operator must immediately notify the Minister when the following incidents occur, namely,
- **(a)** the discovery, at the aerodrome, of a weapon, other than an unloaded firearm allowed under section 19, subsections 25(1) and 27(2) and section 28;
- **(b)** the discovery, at the aerodrome, of an explosive substance or an incendiary device, other than an explosive substance or incendiary device allowed under subsections 29(1) and (2);
- **(c)** an explosion at the aerodrome, unless the explosion is known to be the result of an accident, excavation, demolition, construction or the use of fireworks displays;
- **(d)** a specific threat against the aerodrome; or
- **(e)** an aviation security incident that involves a peace officer anywhere at the aerodrome other than areas under an air carrier’s control.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 14(F).




**65.1** 

- **(1)** A screening authority must immediately notify the appropriate air carrier, the aerodrome operator, the appropriate police service and the Minister if any of the following is detected at a restricted area access point or any other part of an aerodrome where the screening of persons or goods is conducted:
	- **(a)** a weapon, other than a weapon allowed under subsection 25(1) or a firearm allowed under subsection 25(2) or section 27 or 28;
	- **(b)** an explosive substance, other than
		- **(i)** ammunition carried by a person allowed to carry or have access to a weapon or firearm under section 25, 27 or 28, or
		- **(ii)** an explosive substance allowed under subsection 29(1); or
	- **(c)** an incendiary device, other than an incendiary device allowed under subsection 29(1).

- **(2)** A screening authority must immediately notify the appropriate air carrier, the aerodrome operator, the appropriate police service and the Minister when any of the following is detected in checked baggage:
	- **(a)** a loaded firearm;
	- **(b)** an explosive substance, other than ammunition; or
	- **(c)** an incendiary device.

- **(3)** A screening authority must immediately notify the appropriate air carrier, the aerodrome operator and the Minister of any other aviation security incident that involves a peace officer at a restricted area access point or in any other part of an aerodrome where it conducts screening.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 13; SOR/2004-16, s. 8; SOR/2009-292, s. 15.





### Security Information


**66** An air carrier must provide to the Minister, on reasonable notice given by the Minister, written or electronic records or other information relevant to the security of its operations, including
- **(a)** information concerning the method of implementing the security measures, emergency directions or interim orders that apply to the air carrier; and
- **(b)** a description of the nature of operations related to a particular flight and the services provided in respect of the flight.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 16.




**67** Persons who provide services to an air carrier and persons who provide a service related to the transportation of accepted cargo or mail by air, must provide to the Minister, on reasonable notice given by the Minister, written or electronic records or other information relevant to the security of the air carrier’s operations, including
- **(a)** information concerning the method of implementing the security measures, emergency directions or interim orders that apply to those persons; and
- **(b)** a description of the nature of the operations related to a particular flight and the services provided in respect of the flight.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 17.




**67.1** A screening authority must provide to the Minister, on reasonable notice given by the Minister, written or electronic records or other information relevant to the security of its screening operations, including
- **(a)** information concerning the method of implementing the security measures, emergency directions or interim orders that apply to the screening authority; and
- **(b)** a description of the nature of the screening operations related to a particular flight or at a particular aerodrome.
> SOR/2002-188, s. 14; SOR/2009-292, s. 18.




**68** 

- **(1)** An aerodrome operator must keep at the aerodrome a current scale map of the aerodrome that identifies the restricted areas, security barriers and restricted area access points.

- **(2)** The aerodrome operator must provide to the Minister, on reasonable notice given by the Minister, written or electronic records or other information relevant to the security of the aerodrome, including
	- **(a)** information concerning the method of implementing the security measures that apply to the aerodrome operator under subsection 3(1); and
	- **(b)** a copy of the scale map referred to in subsection (1).

- **(3)** The aerodrome operator must provide to the Minister written notice of any new commercial air service that is to begin at the air terminal building.




### Aerodrome Security Committee


**69** The aerodrome operator must establish an aerodrome security committee to advise on the development of security measures, emergency directions and interim orders to be carried out at the aerodrome and to coordinate their implementation.
> SOR/2009-292, s. 19.





**PART 5** 
## Repeals and Coming into Force



### Repeals


**70** The Aerodrome Security Regulations<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup> are repealed.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/87-452<br />



**71** The Air Carrier Security Regulations<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[2]</a></sup> are repealed.

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>2</sup></a>: SOR/87-707<br />




### Coming Into Force


**72** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Section 4)**
- Calgary International Airport
- Edmonton International Airport
- Halifax/Robert L. Stanfield International Airport
- Montréal/Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport
- Montréal International (Mirabel) Airport
- Ottawa/Macdonald-Cartier International Airport
- Toronto/Lester B. Pearson International Airport
- Vancouver International Airport
- Winnipeg/James Armstrong Richardson International Airport
> SOR/2006-340, s. 5; SOR/2009-292, ss. 20 to 22.




### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Section 1 and subsection 36(1))**
- Calgary International Airport
- Charlottetown Airport
- Edmonton International Airport
- Fredericton International Airport
- Gander International Airport
- Greater Moncton International Airport
- Halifax/Robert L. Stanfield International Airport
- Iqaluit Airport
- Kelowna Airport
- London Airport
- Montréal/Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport
- Montréal International (Mirabel) Airport
- Ottawa/Macdonald-Cartier International Airport
- Prince George Airport
- Québec/Jean Lesage International Airport
- Regina Airport
- Saint John Airport
- St. John’s International Airport
- Saskatoon/John G. Diefenbaker International Airport
- Sudbury Airport
- Thunder Bay Airport
- Toronto City Centre Airport
- Toronto/Lester B. Pearson International Airport
- Vancouver International Airport
- Victoria International Airport
- Whitehorse International Airport
- Windsor Airport
- Winnipeg/James Armstrong Richardson International Airport
- Yellowknife Airport
> SOR/2006-340, s. 5; SOR/2009-292, ss. 23 to 26.


