> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2000/210.md)

# Nuclear Non-proliferation Import and Export Control Regulations

**SOR/2000-210**

Enabling authorities: 
- [NUCLEAR SAFETY AND CONTROL ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%209.md)

Date registered: 31 May 2000

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Natural Resources, pursuant to section 44 of the [Nuclear Safety and Control Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%209.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby approves the annexed Nuclear Non-proliferation Import and Export Control Regulations made by the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission on May 31, 2000.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1997, c. 9<br />




## Interpretation


**1** 

- **(1)** The definitions in this subsection apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Nuclear Safety and Control Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%209.md). (*Loi*)

***controlled nuclear equipment*** means the controlled nuclear equipment and the parts and components for controlled nuclear equipment referred to in the schedule. (*équipement nucléaire contrôlé*)

***controlled nuclear information*** means the controlled nuclear information referred to in the schedule. (*renseignement nucléaire contrôlé*)

***controlled nuclear substance*** means a controlled nuclear substance referred to in the schedule. (*substance nucléaire contrôlée*)

***transit*** means the process of being transported through Canada after being imported into and before being exported from Canada, in a situation where the place of initial loading and the final destination are outside Canada. (*transit*)

- **(2)** All controlled nuclear substances are prescribed as nuclear substances for the purpose of paragraph (d) of the definition *nuclear substance* in section 2 of the Act, with respect to the import and export of those substances.

- **(3)** All controlled nuclear equipment is prescribed equipment for the purposes of the Act, with respect to the import and export of that equipment.

- **(4)** All controlled nuclear information is prescribed information for the purposes of the Act, with respect to the import and export of that information, unless it is made public in accordance with the Act, the regulations made under the Act or a licence.




## Application


**2** These Regulations apply in respect of the import and export of controlled nuclear substances, controlled nuclear equipment and controlled nuclear information.




## Application for Licence to Import or Export


**3** 

- **(1)** An application for a licence to import or export a controlled nuclear substance, controlled nuclear equipment or controlled nuclear information shall contain the following information:
	- **(a)** the applicant’s name, address and telephone number;
	- **(b)** a description of the substance, equipment or information, including its quantity and the number of the paragraph of the schedule in which it is referred to;
	- **(c)** the name and address of the supplier;
	- **(d)** the country of origin of the substance, equipment or information;
	- **(e)** the name, address and, where the application is for a licence to import, telephone number of each consignee;
	- **(f)** the intended end-use of the substance, equipment or information by the final consignee and the intended end-use location;
	- **(g)** the number of any licence to possess the substance, equipment or information; and
	- **(h)** where the application is in respect of a controlled substance that is Category I, II or III nuclear material, as defined in section 1 of the [Nuclear Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/209.md), the measures that will be taken to facilitate Canada’s compliance with the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, INFCIRC/274/Rev.1.

- **(2)** The Commission or any designated officer who is authorized to carry out the duties set out in paragraphs 37(2)(c) and (d) of the Act may request any other information that is necessary to enable the Commission or that officer to form the opinion referred to in subsection 24(4) of the Act.
> SOR/2010-106, s. 1.





## Exemptions from Licence Requirement


**4** 

- **(1)** A person may carry on any of the following activities without a licence to carry on that activity:
	- **(a)** import a controlled nuclear substance referred to in Part B of the schedule that is not a radioactive nuclide;
	- **(b)** import controlled nuclear equipment referred to in paragraph A.3 or Part B of the schedule;
	- **(c)** import controlled nuclear information that relates to a controlled nuclear substance or controlled nuclear equipment referred to in paragraph A.3 or Part B of the schedule;
	- **(d)** import a controlled nuclear substance, controlled nuclear equipment or controlled nuclear information for the purpose of placing it in transit;
	- **(e)** export a controlled nuclear substance, controlled nuclear equipment or controlled nuclear information after it has been in transit; or
	- **(f)** export the controlled nuclear substance referred to in paragraph A.1.4. of the schedule that is not for use in a nuclear reactor to any Participating Government of the Nuclear Suppliers Group.

- **(2)** For greater certainty, the exemptions established in subsection (1) relate only to the activities specified in that subsection and do not derogate from the licence requirement imposed by section 26 of the Act in relation to other activities.

- **(3)** Every person who exports a controlled nuclear substance under paragraph (1)(f) shall, by January 31, submit to the Commission a written report that includes the following information regarding every export of the controlled nuclear substance in the previous calendar year:
<br />

	- **(a)** the exporter’s name, address and telephone number;
	- **(b)** a description of the controlled nuclear substance, including the quantity exported and country of origin;
	- **(c)** the date of export;
	- **(d)** the name and address of each consignee; and
	- **(e)** the intended end-use and end-use location of the controlled nuclear substance as stated by the final consignee.
> SOR/2010-106, s. 2.





## Coming into Force


**5** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are approved by the Governor in Council.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Sections 1 and 4)**
## Controlled Nuclear Substances, Equipment and Information
The following lists are reproduced, in rearranged form and with some modifications, from International Atomic Energy Agency Information Circulars INFCIRC/254/Rev.9/Part 1, INFCIRC/254/Rev.7/Part 2 and INFCIRC/209/Rev.2.



**PART A** 
## List of Nuclear Items


### **A.1.** Controlled Nuclear Substances

**A.1.1.  ***Special fissionable material, as follows:*

**(a)** plutonium and all isotopes, alloys and compounds and any material that contains any of these substances; and



**(b)** uranium 233, uranium enriched in the isotopes 235 or 233 and all alloys and compounds and any material that contains any of these substances.



NOTE

Paragraph A.1.1. does not include

**(a)** special fissionable material occurring as contaminants in laundry, packaging, shielding or equipment;



**(b)** special fissionable material used as a sensing component in instruments in quantities of four effective grams or less; or





**(c)** plutonium 238 that is contained in heart pacemakers.






**A.1.2** *Source material*

The following source materials in any form, including ore, concentrate, compound, metal or alloy, or incorporated in any substance, other than medicinals, and in which the concentration of source material is greater than 0.05 weight %:

**(a)** uranium that contains the mixture of isotopes that occurs in nature;



**(b)** uranium that is depleted in the isotope 235; and



**(c)** thorium.



NOTE

Paragraph A.1.2. does not include

**(a)** source material occurring as contaminants in laundry, packaging, shielding or equipment; or



**(b)** depleted uranium used as shielding for Class II Prescribed Equipment, within the meaning of section 1 of the Class II Nuclear Facilities and Prescribed Equipment Regulations, for radiation devices or for transport packaging.










**A.1.3** *Deuterium and heavy water*

Deuterium, heavy water (deuterium oxide) and any other deuterium compound in which the ratio of deuterium to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5,000.



NOTE

Paragraph A.1.3. does not include

**(a)** deuterium contained in deuterium lamps;



**(b)** deuterium occurring as a contaminant in laundry or equipment; or



**(c)** any deuterium compound that is used for labelling purposes.








**A.1.4** *Nuclear grade graphite*

Graphite having a purity level better than 5 ppm boron equivalent and with a density greater than 1.50 g/cm<sup>3</sup>.




**A.1.5** *Tritium*

Tritium, tritium compounds or mixtures containing tritium in which the ratio of tritium to hydrogen by atoms exceeds 1 part in 1000 and products that contain any of these substances.





### **A.2.** Controlled Nuclear Equipment

**A.2.1** *Nuclear reactors and especially designed or prepared equipment and components therefor, including:*

**A.2.1.1** *Complete nuclear reactors*

Nuclear reactors capable of operation so as to maintain a controlled self-sustaining fission chain reaction.





**A.2.1.2** *Nuclear reactor vessels*

Metal vessels, or major shop-fabricated parts therefor, especially designed or prepared to contain the core of a nuclear reactor as well as reactor internals as defined in paragraph A.2.1.8.





**A.2.1.3** *Nuclear reactor fuel charging and discharging machines*

Manipulative equipment especially designed or prepared for inserting or removing fuel in a nuclear reactor.





**A.2.1.4** *Nuclear reactor control rods and equipment*

Especially designed or prepared rods, support or suspension structures therefor, rod drive mechanismsor rod guide tubes to control the fission process in a nuclear reactor.





**A.2.1.5** *Nuclear reactor pressure tubes*

Tubes which are especially designed or prepared to contain fuel elements and the primary coolant in a nuclear reactor at an operating pressure in excess of 50 atmospheres.





**A.2.1.6** *Zirconium tubes*

Zirconium metal and alloys in the form of tubes or assemblies of tubes, especially designed or prepared for use in a nuclear reactor and in which the relation of hafnium to zirconium is less than 1:500 parts by weight.





**A.2.1.7** *Primary coolant pumps*

Pumps especially designed or prepared for circulating the primary coolant for nuclear reactors.





**A.2.1.8** *Nuclear reactor internals*

Nuclear reactor internals especially designed or prepared for use in a nuclear reactor including support columns for the core, fuel channels, thermal shields, baffles, core grid plates, and diffuser plates.





**A.2.1.9** *Heat exchangers*

Heat exchangers (steam generators) especially designed or prepared for use in the primary coolant circuit of a nuclear reactor.





**A.2.1.10** *Neutron detection and measuring instruments*

Especially designed or prepared neutron detection and measuring instruments for determining neutron flux within the core of a nuclear reactor.






**A.2.2** *Plants for the reprocessing of irradiated fuel elements, and equipment especially designed or prepared therefor, including:*

**A.2.2.1** *Irradiated fuel element chopping machines*

Remotely operated equipment especially designed or prepared for use in a reprocessing plant as identified above and intended to cut, chop or shear irradiated nuclear fuel assemblies, bundles or rods.





**A.2.2.2** *Dissolvers*

Critically safe tanks (e.g. small diameter, annular or slab tanks) especially designed or prepared for use in a reprocessing plant as identified above, intended for the dissolution of irradiated nuclear fuel and which are capable of withstanding hot, highly corrosive liquid, and which can be remotely loaded and maintained.





**A.2.2.3** *Solvent extractors and solvent extraction equipment*

Especially designed or prepared solvent extractors such as packed or pulse columns, mixer settlers or centrifugal contactors for use in a plant for the reprocessing of irradiated fuel. Solvent extractors must be resistant to the corrosive effect of nitric acid. Solvent extractors are normally fabricated to extremely high standards (including special welding and inspection and quality assurance and quality control techniques) out of low carbon stainless steels, titanium, zirconium or other high-quality materials.





**A.2.2.4** *Chemical holding or storage vessel*

Especially designed or prepared holding or storage vessels for use in a plant for the reprocessing of irradiated fuel. The holding or storage vessels must be resistant to the corrosive effect of nitric acid. The holding or storage vessels are normally fabricated of materials such as low carbon stainless steels, titanium or zirconium, or other high-quality materials. Holding or storage vessels may be designed for remote operation and maintenance and may have the following features for control of nuclear criticality:

**(a)** walls or internal structures with a boron equivalent of at least 2%;



**(b)** a maximum diameter of 175 mm (7 in.) for cylindrical vessels; or



**(c)** a maximum width of 75 mm (3 in.) for either a slab or annular vessel.







**A.2.2.5. and A.2.2.6** [Repealed, SOR/2010-106, s. 10]




**A.2.3** *Plants for the fabrication of nuclear reactor fuel elements, and equipment especially designed or prepared therefor including equipment which:*

**(a)** normally comes in direct contact with, or directly processes, or controls, the production flow of nuclear material;



**(b)** seals the nuclear material within the cladding;



**(c)** checks the integrity of the cladding or the seal; or



**(d)** checks the finish treatment of the sealed fuel.




**A.2.4** *Plants for the separation of isotopes of natural uranium, depleted uranium or special fissionable material and equipment, other than analytical instruments, especially designed or prepared for that purpose, including*

**A.2.4.1** *Gas centrifuges and assemblies and components especially designed or prepared for use in gas centrifuges, including:*

**A.2.4.1.1** *Rotating components*

**(a)** complete rotor assemblies:

thin-walled cylinders, or a number of interconnected thin-walled cylinders, manufactured from one or more of the high strength to density ratio materials. If interconnected, the cylinders are joined together by flexible bellows or rings as described in paragraph (c). The rotor is fitted with an internal baffle(s) and end caps, as described in paragraphs (d) and (e), if in final form. However the complete assembly may be delivered only partly assembled;





**(b)** rotor tubes:

especially designed or prepared thin-walled cylinders with thickness of 12 mm (0.5 in.) or less, a diameter of between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.), and manufactured from high strength to density ratio materials;





**(c)** rings or bellows:

components especially designed or prepared to give localized support to the rotor tube or to join together a number of rotor tubes. The bellows is a short cylinder of wall thickness 3 mm (0.12 in.) or less, a diameter of between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.), having a convolute, and manufactured from high strength to density ratio materials;





**(d)** baffles:

disc-shaped components of between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.) diameter especially designed or prepared to be mounted inside the centrifuge rotor tube, in order to isolate the take-off chamber from the main separation chamber and, in some cases, to assist the UF<sub>6</sub> gas circulation within the main separation chamber of the rotor tube, and manufactured from strength to density ratio materials; and





**(e)** top caps/bottom caps:

disc-shaped components of between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.) diameter especially designed or prepared to fit to the ends of the rotor tube, and so contain the UF<sub>6</sub> within the rotor tube, and in some cases to support, retain or contain as an integrated part an element of the upper bearing (top cap) or to carry the rotating elements of the motor and lower bearing (bottom cap), and manufactured from high strength to density ratio materials.







**A.2.4.1.2** *Static components*

**(a)** magnetic suspension bearings:

especially designed or prepared bearing assemblies consisting of an annular magnet suspended within a housing containing a damping medium. The housing will be manufactured from a UF<sub>6</sub>-resistant material. The magnet couples with a pole piece or a second magnet fitted to the top cap described in paragraph A.2.4.1.1.(e). The magnet may be ring-shaped with a relation between outer and inner diameter smaller or equal to 1.6:1. The magnet may be in a form having an initial permeability of 0.15 H/m (120,000 in CGS units) or more, or a remanence of 98.5% or more, or an energy product of greater than 80 kJ/m<sup>3</sup> (107 gauss-oersteds). In addition to the usual material properties, it is a prerequisite that the deviation of the magnetic axes from the geometrical axes is limited to very small tolerances (lower than 0.1 mm or 0.004 in.) or that homogeneity of the material of the magnet is specially called for;





**(b)** bearings/dampers:

especially designed or prepared bearings comprising a pivot/cup assembly mounted on a damper. The pivot is normally a hardened steel shaft with a hemisphere at one end with a means of attachment to the bottom cap described in paragraph A.2.4.1.1.(e) at the other. The shaft may however have a hydrodynamic bearing attached. The cup is pellet-shaped with a hemispherical indentation in one surface. These components are often supplied separately to the damper;





**(c)** molecular pumps:

especially designed or prepared cylinders having internally machined or extruded helical grooves and internally machined bores. Typical dimensions are as follows: 75 mm (3 in.) to 400 mm (16 in.) internal diameter, 10 mm (0.4 in.) or more wall thickness, with the length equal to or greater than the diameter. The grooves are typically rectangular in cross-section and 2 mm (0.08 in.) or more in depth;





**(d)** motor stators:

especially designed or prepared ring-shaped stators for high speed multiphase AC hysteresis (or reluctance) motors for synchronous operation within a vacuum in the frequency range of 600 Hz to 2 000 Hz and a power range of 50 VA to 1 000 VA. The stators consist of multiphase windings on a laminated low loss iron core comprised of thin layers typically 2 mm (0.08 in.) thick or less;





**(e)** centrifuge housing/recipients:

components especially designed or prepared to contain the rotor tube assembly of a gas centrifuge. The housing consists of a rigid cylinder of wall thickness up to 30 mm (1.2 in.) with precision machined ends to locate the bearings and with one or more flanges for mounting. The machined ends are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the cylinder’s longitudinal axis to within 0.05° or less. The housing may also be a honeycomb type structure to accommodate several rotor tubes. The housings are made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>; and





**(f)** scoops:

especially designed or prepared tubes of up to 12 mm (0.5 in.) internal diameter for the extraction of UF<sub>6</sub> gas from within the rotor tube by a Pitot tube action (that is, with an aperture facing into the circumferential gas flow within the rotor tube, for example by bending the end of a radially disposed tube) and capable of being fixed to the central gas extraction system. The tubes are made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>.









**A.2.4.2** *Especially designed or prepared auxiliary systems, equipment and components for gas centrifuge enrichment plants, including:*

**A.2.4.2.1** *Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems*

Especially designed or prepared process systems including:

**(a)** feed autoclaves (or stations), used for passing UF<sub>6</sub> to the centrifuge cascades at up to 100 kPa (15 psi) and at a rate of 1 kg/h or more;



**(b)** desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UF<sub>6</sub> from the cascades at up to 3 kPa (0.5 psi) pressure. The desublimers are capable of being chilled to 203 K (-70°C) and heated to 343 K (70°C); and



**(c)** product and tails stations used for trapping UF<sub>6</sub> into containers.





This plant, equipment and pipework is wholly made of or lined with UF<sub>6</sub>-resistant materials and is fabricated to very high vacuum and cleanliness standards.





**A.2.4.2.2** *Machine header piping systems*

Especially designed or prepared piping systems and header systems for handling UF<sub>6</sub> within the centrifuge cascades. The piping network is normally of the triple header system with each centrifuge connected to each of the headers. There is thus a substantial amount of repetition in its form. It is wholly made of UF<sub>6</sub>-resistant materials and is fabricated to very high vacuum and cleanliness standards.





**A.2.4.2.3** *Special shut-off and control valves*

Especially designed or prepared bellows-sealed shut-off and control valves, manual or automated, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>, with a diameter of 10 mm to 160 mm (0.4 in. to 6.3 in.), for use in main or auxiliary systems of gas centrifuge enrichment plants.





**A.2.4.2.4** *UF6 mass spectrometers/ion sources*

Especially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples of feed, product or tails, from UF<sub>6</sub> gas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

**(a)** unit resolution for atomic mass unit greater than 320;





**(b)** ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;



**(c)** electron bombardment ionization sources; and



**(d)** having a collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.





**A.2.4.2.5** *Frequency changers*

Frequency changers (also known as converters or invertors) especially designed or prepared to supply motor stators as defined in paragraph A.2.4.1.2.(d), or parts, components and sub-assemblies of such frequency changers having all of the following characteristics:

**(a)** a multiphase output of 600 Hz to 2 000 Hz;



**(b)** high stability (with frequency control better than 0.1%);



**(c)** low harmonic distortion (less than 2%); and



**(d)** an efficiency of greater than 80%.









**A.2.4.3** *Especially designed or prepared assemblies and components for use in gaseous diffusion enrichment, including:*

**A.2.4.3.1** *Gaseous diffusion barriers*

**(a)** especially designed or prepared thin, porous filters, with a pore size of 100 Å to 1 000 Å (angstroms), a thickness of 5 mm (0.2 in.) or less, and for tubular forms, a diameter of 25 mm (1 in.) or less, made of metallic, polymer or ceramic materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>; and



**(b)** especially prepared compounds or powders for the manufacture of such filters. Such compounds and powders include nickel or alloys containing 60% or more nickel, aluminium oxide, or UF<sub>6</sub>-resistant fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers having a purity of 99.9% or more, a particle size less than 10 microns, and a high degree of particle size uniformity, which are especially prepared for the manufacture of gaseous diffusion barriers.





**A.2.4.3.2** *Diffuser housings*

Especially designed or prepared hermetically sealed cylindrical vessels greater than 300 mm (12 in.) in diameter and greater than 900 mm (35 in.) in length, or rectangular vessels of comparable dimensions, which have an inlet connection and two outlet connections all of which are greater than 50 mm (2 in.) in diameter, for containing the gaseous diffusion barrier, made of or lined with UF<sub>6</sub>-resistant materials and designed for horizontal or vertical installation.





**A.2.4.3.3** *Compressors and gas blowers*

Especially designed or prepared axial, centrifugal, or positive displacement compressors, or gas blowers with a suction volume capacity of 1 m<sup>3</sup>/min or more of UF<sub>6</sub>, and with a discharge pressure of up to several hundred kPa (100 psi), designed for long-term operation in the UF<sub>6</sub> environment with or without an electrical motor of appropriate power, as well as separate assemblies of such compressors and gas blowers. These compressors and gas blowers have a pressure ratio between 2:1 and 6:1 and are made of, or lined with, materials resistant to UF<sub>6</sub>.





**A.2.4.3.4** *Rotary shaft seals*

Especially designed or prepared vacuum seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor or the gas blower rotor with the driver motor so as to ensure a reliable seal against in-leaking of air into the inner chamber of the compressor or gas blower which is filled with UF<sub>6</sub>. Such seals are normally designed for a buffer gas in-leakage rate of less than 1 000 cm<sup>3</sup>/min (60 in.<sup>3</sup>/min).





**A.2.4.3.5** *Heat exchangers for cooling UF6*

Especially designed or prepared heat exchangers made of or lined with UF<sub>6</sub>-resistant materials (except stainless steel) or with copper or any combination of those metals, and intended for a leakage pressure change rate of less than 10 Pa/h (0.0015 psi/h) under a pressure difference of 100 kPa (15 psi).







**A.2.4.4** *Especially designed or prepared auxiliary systems, equipment and components for use in gaseous diffusion enrichment, including:*

**A.2.4.4.1** *Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems*

Especially designed or prepared process systems, capable of operating at pressures of 300 kPa (45 psi) or less, including:

**(a)** feed autoclaves (or systems) used for passing UF<sub>6</sub> to the gaseous diffusion cascades;



**(b)** desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UF<sub>6</sub> from diffusion cascades;



**(c)** liquefaction stations where UF<sub>6</sub> gas from the cascade is compressed and cooled to form liquid UF<sub>6</sub>; and



**(d)** product or tails stations used for transferring UF<sub>6</sub> into containers.







**A.2.4.4.2** *Header piping systems*

Especially designed or prepared piping systems and header systems for handling UF<sub>6</sub> within the gaseous diffusion cascades. This piping network is normally of the double header system with each cell connected to each of the headers.





**A.2.4.4.3** *Vacuum systems*

**(a)** especially designed or prepared large vacuum manifolds, vacuum headers and vacuum pumps having a suction capacity of 5 m<sup>3</sup>/min (175 ft.<sup>3</sup>/min) or more; and



**(b)** vacuum pumps especially designed for service in UF<sub>6</sub>-bearing atmospheres made of, or lined with, aluminium, nickel, or alloys bearing more than 60% nickel. These pumps may be either rotary or positive, may have displacement and fluorocarbon seals, and may have special working fluids present.





**A.2.4.4.4** *Special shut-off and control valves*

Especially designed or prepared manual or automated shut-off and control bellows valves made of UF<sub>6</sub>-resistant materials with a diameter of 40 mm to 1 500 mm (1.5 in. to 59 in.) for installation in main and auxiliary systems of gaseous diffusion enrichment plants.





**A.2.4.4.5** *UF6 mass spectrometers/ion sources*

Especially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples of feed, product or tails, from UF<sub>6</sub> gas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

**(a)** resolution for atomic mass unit greater than 320;



**(b)** ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;



**(c)** electron bombardment ionization sources; and



**(d)** collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.









**A.2.4.5** *Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in aerodynamic enrichment plants, including:*

**A.2.4.5.1** *Separation nozzles*

Especially designed or prepared separation nozzles and assemblies thereof. The separation nozzles consist of slit-shaped, curved channels having a radius of curvature less than 1 mm (typically 0.1 mm to 0.05 mm), resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub> and having a knife-edge within the nozzle that separates the gas flowing through the nozzle into two fractions.





**A.2.4.5.2** *Vortex tubes*

Especially designed or prepared vortex tubes and assemblies thereof. The vortex tubes are cylindrical or tapered, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>, having a diameter of between 0.5 cm and 4 cm, a length to diameter ratio of 20:1 or less and with one or more tangential inlets. The tubes may be equipped with nozzle-type appendages at either or both ends.





**A.2.4.5.3** *Compressors and gas blowers*

Especially designed or prepared axial, centrifugal or positive displacement compressors or gas blowers made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub> and with a suction volume capacity of 2 m<sup>3</sup>/min or more of UF<sub>6</sub>/carrier gas (hydrogen or helium) mixture.





**A.2.4.5.4** *Rotary shaft seals*

Especially designed or prepared rotary shaft seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor rotor or the gas blower rotor with the driver motor so as to ensure a reliable seal against out-leakage of process gas or in-leakage of air or seal gas into the inner chamber of the compressor or gas blower which is filled with a UF<sub>6</sub>/carrier gas mixture.





**A.2.4.5.5** *Heat exchangers for gas cooling*

Especially designed or prepared heat exchangers made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>.





**A.2.4.5.6** *Separation element housings*

Especially designed or prepared separation element housings, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>, for containing vortex tubes or separation nozzles.





**A.2.4.5.7** *Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems*

Especially designed or prepared process systems or equipment for enrichment plants made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>, including:

**(a)** feed autoclaves, ovens, or systems used for passing UF<sub>6</sub> to the enrichment process;



**(b)** desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UF<sub>6</sub> from the enrichment process for subsequent transfer upon heating;



**(c)** solidification or liquefaction stations used to remove UF<sub>6</sub> from the enrichment process by compressing and converting UF<sub>6</sub> to a liquid or solid form; and



**(d)** product or tails stations used for transferring UF<sub>6</sub> into containers.







**A.2.4.5.8** *Header piping systems*

Especially designed or prepared header piping systems, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>, for handling UF<sub>6</sub> within the aerodynamic cascades. This piping network is normally of the double header design with each stage or group of stages connected to each of the headers.





**A.2.4.5.9** *Vacuum systems and pumps*

**(a)** especially designed or prepared vacuum systems having a suction capacity of 5 m<sup>3</sup>/min or more, consisting of vacuum manifolds, vacuum headers and vacuum pumps, and designed for service in UF<sub>6</sub>-bearing atmospheres; and



**(b)** vacuum pumps especially designed or prepared for service in UF<sub>6</sub>-bearing atmospheres and made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>. These pumps may use fluorocarbon seals and special working fluids.





**A.2.4.5.10** *Special shut-off and control valves*

Especially designed or prepared manual or automated shut-off and control bellows valves made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub> with a diameter of 40 mm to 1 500 mm for installation in main and auxiliary systems of aerodynamic enrichment plants.





**A.2.4.5.11** *UF6 mass spectrometers/ion sources*

Especially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples of feed, product or tails, from UF<sub>6</sub> gas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

**(a)** unit resolution for mass greater than 320;



**(b)** ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;



**(c)** electron bombardment ionization sources; and



**(d)** collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.







**A.2.4.5.12** *UF6/carrier gas separation systems*

Especially designed or prepared process systems for separating UF<sub>6</sub> from carrier gas (hydrogen or helium).







**A.2.4.6** *Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in chemical exchange or ion exchange enrichment plants, including:*

**A.2.4.6.1** *Liquid-liquid exchange columns (chemical exchange)*

Countercurrent liquid-liquid exchange columns having mechanical power input (i.e., pulsed columns with sieve plates, reciprocating plate columns, and columns with internal turbine mixers), especially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the chemical exchange process. For corrosion resistance to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions, these columns and their internals are made of or protected by suitable plastic materials (such as fluorocarbon polymers) or glass. The stage residence time of the columns is designed to be short (30 s or less).





**A.2.4.6.2** *Liquid-liquid centrifugal contactors (chemical exchange)*

Liquid-liquid centrifugal contactors especially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the chemical exchange process. Such contactors use rotation to achieve dispersion of the organic and aqueous streams and then centrifugal force to separate the phases. For corrosion resistance to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions, the contactors are made of or are lined with suitable plastic materials (such as fluorocarbon polymers) or are lined with glass. The stage residence time of the centrifugal contactors is designed to be short (30 s or less).





**A.2.4.6.3** *Uranium reduction systems and equipment (chemical exchange)*

**(a)** especially designed or prepared electrochemical reduction cells to reduce uranium from one valence state to another for uranium enrichment using the chemical exchange process. The cell materials in contact with process solutions must be corrosion resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions; and



**(b)** especially designed or prepared systems at the product end of the cascade for taking the U<sup>+4</sup> out of the organic stream, adjusting the acid concentration and feeding to the electrochemical reduction cells.





**A.2.4.6.4** *Feed preparation systems (chemical exchange)*

Especially designed or prepared systems for producing high-purity uranium chloride feed solutions for chemical exchange uranium isotope separation plants.





**A.2.4.6.5** *Uranium oxidation systems (chemical exchange)*

Especially designed or prepared systems for oxidation of U<sup>+3</sup> to U<sup>+4</sup> for return to the uranium isotope separation cascade in the chemical exchange enrichment process.





**A.2.4.6.6** *Fast-reacting ion exchange resins/adsorbents (ion exchange)*

Fast-reacting ion-exchange resins or adsorbents especially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the ion exchange process, including porous macroreticular resins, and pellicular structures in which the active chemical exchange groups are limited to a coating on the surface of an inactive porous support structure, and other composite structures in any suitable form including particles or fibres. These ion exchange resins/adsorbents have diameters of 0.2 mm or less and must be chemically resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions as well as physically strong enough so as not to degrade in the exchange columns. The resins/adsorbents are especially designed to achieve very fast uranium isotope exchange kinetics (exchange rate half-time of less than 10 s) and are capable of operating at a temperature in the range of 100°C to 200°C.





**A.2.4.6.7** *Ion exchange columns (ion exchange)*

Cylindrical columns greater than 1 000 mm in diameter for containing and supporting packed beds of ion exchange resin/adsorbent, especially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the ion exchange process. These columns are made of or protected by materials (such as titanium or fluorocarbon plastics) resistant to corrosion by concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions and are capable of operating at a temperature in the range of 100°C to 200°C and pressures above 0.7 MPa (102 psi).





**A.2.4.6.8** *Ion exchange reflux systems (ion exchange)*

**(a)** especially designed or prepared chemical or electrochemical reduction systems for regeneration of the chemical reducing agent(s) used in ion exchange uranium enrichment cascades; and



**(b)** especially designed or prepared chemical or electrochemical oxidation systems for regeneration of the chemical oxidizing agent(s) used in ion exchange uranium enrichment cascades.







**A.2.4.7** *Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in laser-based enrichment plants, including:*

**A.2.4.7.1** *Uranium vaporization systems (AVLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared uranium vaporization systems which contain high-power strip or scanning electron beam guns with a delivered power on the target of more than 2.5 kW/cm.





**A.2.4.7.2** *Liquid uranium metal handling systems (AVLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared liquid metal handling systems for molten uranium or uranium alloys, consisting of crucibles and cooling equipment for the crucibles.





**A.2.4.7.3** *Uranium metal product and tails collector assemblies (AVLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared product and tails collector assemblies for uranium metal in liquid or solid form.





**A.2.4.7.4** *Separator module housings (AVLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared cylindrical or rectangular vessels for containing the uranium metal vapour source, the electron beam gun, and the product and tails collectors.





**A.2.4.7.5** *Supersonic expansion nozzles (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared supersonic expansion nozzles for cooling mixtures of UF<sub>6</sub> and carrier gas to 150 K or less and which are corrosion resistant to UF<sub>6</sub>.





**A.2.4.7.6** *Uranium pentafluoride product collectors (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared uranium pentafluoride (UF<sub>5</sub>) solid product collectors consisting of filter, impact, or cyclone-type collectors, or combinations thereof, and which are corrosion resistant to the UF<sub>5</sub>/UF<sub>6</sub> environment.





**A.2.4.7.7** *UF6/carrier gas compressors (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared compressors for UF<sub>6</sub>/carrier gas mixtures, designed for long-term operation in a UF<sub>6</sub> environment. The components of these compressors that come into contact with process gas are made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>.





**A.2.4.7.8** *Rotary shaft seals (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared rotary shaft seals, with seal feed and seal exhaust connections, for sealing the shaft connecting the compressor rotor with the driver motor so as to ensure a reliable seal against out-leakage of process gas or in-leakage of air or seal gas into the inner chamber of the compressor which is filled with a UF<sub>6</sub>/carrier gas mixture.





**A.2.4.7.9** *Fluorination systems (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared systems for fluorinating UF<sub>5</sub> (solid) to UF<sub>6</sub> (gas).





**A.2.4.7.10** *UF6 mass spectrometers/ion sources (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples of feed, product or tails, from UF<sub>6</sub> gas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

**(a)** unit resolution for mass greater than 320;



**(b)** ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel plated;



**(c)** electron bombardment ionization sources; and



**(d)** collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.







**A.2.4.7.11** *Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared process systems or equipment for enrichment plants made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF<sub>6</sub>, including:

**(a)** feed autoclaves, ovens, or systems used for passing UF<sub>6</sub> to the enrichment process;



**(b)** desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UF<sub>6</sub> from the enrichment process for subsequent transfer upon heating;



**(c)** solidification or liquefaction stations used to remove UF<sub>6</sub> from the enrichment process by compressing and converting UF<sub>6</sub> to a liquid or solid form; and



**(d)** product or tails stations used for transferring UF<sub>6</sub> into containers.







**A.2.4.7.12** *UF6/carrier gas separation systems (MLIS)*

Especially designed or prepared process systems for separating UF<sub>6</sub> from carrier gas. The carrier gas may be nitrogen, argon, or other gas.





**A.2.4.7.13** *Laser systems (AVLIS, MLIS and CRISLA)*

Lasers or laser systems especially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes.







**A.2.4.8** *Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in plasma separation enrichment plants, including:*

**A.2.4.8.1** *Microwave power sources and antennae*

Especially designed or prepared microwave power sources and antennae for producing or accelerating ions and having the following characteristics: greater than 30 GHz frequency and greater than 50 kW mean power output for ion production.





**A.2.4.8.2** *Ion excitation coils*

Especially designed or prepared radio frequency ion excitation coils for frequencies of more than 100 kHz and capable of handling more than 40 kW mean power.





**A.2.4.8.3** *Uranium plasma generation systems*

Especially designed or prepared systems for the generation of uranium plasma, which may contain high-power strip or scanning electron beam guns with a delivered power on the target of more than 2.5 kW/cm.





**A.2.4.8.4** *Liquid uranium metal handling systems*

Especially designed or prepared liquid metal handling systems for molten uranium or uranium alloys, consisting of crucibles and cooling equipment for the crucibles.





**A.2.4.8.5** *Uranium metal product and tails collector assemblies*

Especially designed or prepared product and tails collector assemblies for uranium metal in solid form. These collector assemblies are made of or protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium metal vapour, such as yttria-coated graphite or tantalum.





**A.2.4.8.6** *Separator module housings*

Cylindrical vessels especially designed or prepared for use in plasma separation enrichment plants for containing the uranium plasma source, radio-frequency drive coil and the product and tails collectors.







**A.2.4.9** *Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in electromagnetic enrichment plants, including:*

**A.2.4.9.1** *Electromagnetic isotope separators*

Electromagnetic isotope separators especially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes, and equipment and components therefor, including:

**(a)** ion sources:

especially designed or prepared single or multiple uranium ion sources consisting of a vapour source, ionizer, and beam accelerator, constructed of suitable materials such as graphite, stainless steel, or copper, and capable of providing a total ion beam current of 50 mA or greater;





**(b)** ion collectors:

collector plates consisting of two or more slits and pockets especially designed or prepared for collection of enriched and depleted uranium ion beams and constructed of suitable materials such as graphite or stainless steel;





**(c)** vacuum housings:

especially designed or prepared vacuum housings for uranium electromagnetic separators, constructed of suitable non-magnetic materials such as stainless steel and designed for operation at pressures of 0.1 Pa or lower; and





**(d)** magnet pole pieces:

especially designed or prepared magnet pole pieces having a diameter greater than 2 m used to maintain a constant magnetic field within an electromagnetic isotope separator and to transfer the magnetic field between adjoining separators.









**A.2.4.9.2** *High voltage power supplies*

Especially designed or prepared high-voltage power supplies for ion sources, having all of the following characteristics: capable of continuous operation, output voltage of 20 000 V or greater, output current of 1 A or greater, and voltage regulation of better than 0.01% over a time period of 8 hours.





**A.2.4.9.3** *Magnet power supplies*

Especially designed or prepared high-power, direct current magnet power supplies having all of the following characteristics: capable of continuously producing a current output of 500 A or greater at a voltage of 100 V or greater and with a current or voltage regulation better than 0.01% over a period of 8 hours.








**A.2.5** *Plants for the production or concentration of heavy water, deuterium and deuterium compounds and equipment especially designed or prepared therefor, including:*

**A.2.5.1** *Water-hydrogen sulphide exchange towers*

Exchange towers fabricated from fine carbon steel (such as ASTM A516) with diameters of 6 m (20 ft.) to 9 m (30 ft.), capable of operating at pressures greater than or equal to 2 MPa (300 psi) and with a corrosion allowance of 6 mm or greater, especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the water-hydrogen sulphide exchange process.





**A.2.5.2** *Blowers and compressors*

Single stage, low head (i.e., 0.2 MPa or 30 psi) centrifugal blowers or compressors for hydrogen-sulphide gas circulation (i.e., gas containing more than 70% H<sub>2</sub>S) especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the water-hydrogen sulphide exchange process. These blowers or compressors have a throughput capacity greater than or equal to 56 m<sup>3</sup>/s (120,000 SCFM) while operating at pressures greater than or equal to 1.8 MPa (260 psi) suction and have seals designed for wet H<sub>2</sub>S service.





**A.2.5.3** *Ammonia-hydrogen exchange towers*

Ammonia-hydrogen exchange towers greater than or equal to 35 m (114.3 ft.) in height with diameters of 1.5 m (4.9 ft.) to 2.5 m (8.2 ft.) capable of operating at pressures greater than 15 MPa (2,225 psi) especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process. These towers also have at least one flanged, axial opening of the same diameter as the cylindrical part through which the tower internals can be inserted or withdrawn.





**A.2.5.4** *Tower internals and stage pumps*

Tower internals and stage pumps especially designed or prepared for towers for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process. Tower internals include especially designed stage contactors which promote intimate gas/liquid contact. Stage pumps include especially designed submersible pumps for circulation of liquid ammonia within a contacting stage internal to the stage towers.





**A.2.5.5** *Ammonia crackers*

Ammonia crackers with operating pressures greater than or equal to 3 MPa (450 psi) especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.





**A.2.5.6** *Infrared absorption analyzers*

Infrared absorption analyzers capable of on-line hydrogen/deuterium ratio analysis where deuterium concentrations are equal to or greater than 90%.





**A.2.5.7** *Catalytic burners*

Catalytic burners for the conversion of enriched deuterium gas into heavy water especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.





**A.2.5.8** *Complete heavy water upgrade systems or columns therefor*

Complete heavy water upgrade systems, or columns therefor, especially designed or prepared for the upgrade of heavy water to reactor-grade deuterium concentration.






**A.2.6** *Plants for the conversion of uranium and plutonium for use in the fabrication of fuel elements and the separation of uranium isotopes, as set out in paragraphs A.2.3. and A.2.4., respectively, and equipment especially designed or prepared for such plants, including*

**A.2.6.1** *Plants for the conversion of uranium and equipment especially designed or prepared for that purpose, including*

**A.2.6.1.1** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of uranium ore concentrates to UO<sub>3</sub>.



**A.2.6.1.2** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UO<sub>3</sub> to UF<sub>6</sub>.



**A.2.6.1.3** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UO<sub>3</sub> to UO<sub>2</sub>.



**A.2.6.1.4** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UO<sub>2</sub> to UF<sub>4</sub>.



**A.2.6.1.5** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UF<sub>4</sub> to UF<sub>6</sub>.



**A.2.6.1.6** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UF<sub>4</sub> to U metal.



**A.2.6.1.7** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UF<sub>6</sub> to UO<sub>2</sub>.



**A.2.6.1.8** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UF<sub>6</sub> to UF<sub>4</sub>.



**A.2.6.1.9** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UO<sub>2</sub> to UCl<sub>4</sub>.





**A.2.6.2** *Plants for the conversion of plutonium and equipment especially designed or prepared for that purpose, including*

**A.2.6.2.1** Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of plutonium nitrate to oxide.



**A.2.6.2.2** Especially designed or prepared systems for plutonium metal production.







### **A.3.** Parts for Controlled Nuclear Equipment Identified in Paragraphs Comprising A.2.


### **A.4.** Controlled Nuclear Information

**A.4.1.  ***Technology*

Technical data, including, but not limited to, technical drawings, models, photographic negatives and prints, recordings, design data and technical and operating manuals, whether in written form or recorded on other media or devices such as disk, tape and read-only memories for the design, production, construction, operation or maintenance of any item in this Part, except data available to the public (e.g. in published books or periodicals, or that which has been made available without restrictions on its further dissemination).





**PART B** 
## List of Nuclear-related Dual-use Items


### **B.1.** Controlled Nuclear Substances

**B.1.1** *Nuclear-related dual-use substances*

**B.1.1.1** Alpha-emitting radionuclides having an alpha half-life of 10 days or greater but less than 200 years, compounds or mixtures containing any of these radionuclides with a total alpha activity of 1 Ci/kg (37 GBq/kg) or greater, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing, except a product or device containing less than 3.7 GBq (100 mCi) of alpha activity.



**B.1.1.2** Aluminium alloys capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 460 MPa (0.46 x 10<sup>9</sup> N/m<sup>2</sup>) or more at 293 K (20°C), in the form of tubes or cylindrical solid forms (including forgings) with an outside diameter of more than 75 mm (3 in.).

NOTE

The phrase “capable of” encompasses aluminium alloys before or after heat treatment.







**B.1.1.3** Beryllium metal, alloys containing more than 50% beryllium by weight, beryllium compounds, and manufactures thereof, except:

**(a)** metal windows for X-ray machines, or for bore-hole logging devices;



**(b)** oxide shapes in fabricated or semi-fabricated forms specially designed for electronic component parts or as substrates for electronic circuits; and



**(c)** beryl (silicate of beryllium and aluminium) in the form of emeralds or aquamarines.



NOTE

This entry includes waste and scrap containing beryllium as defined above.







**B.1.1.4** High-purity (99.99% or greater) bismuth with very low silver content (less than 10 ppm).



**B.1.1.5** Boron and boron compounds, mixtures, loaded materials, and waste or scrap of any of these substances, in which the boron-10 isotope is more than 20% by weight of the total boron content.



**B.1.1.6** Calcium (high purity) containing both less than 1 000 ppm by weight of metallic impurities other than magnesium and less than 10 ppm of boron.



**B.1.1.7** Chlorine trifluoride (ClF<sub>3</sub>).



**B.1.1.8** *Crucibles made of materials resistant to liquid actinide metals, as follows:*

**(a)** crucibles with a volume of between 150 ml and 8 L and made of or coated with any of the following materials having a purity of 98% or greater:

**(1)** calcium fluoride (CaF<sub>2</sub>)



**(2)** calcium zirconate (metazirconate) (Ca<sub>2</sub>ZrO<sub>3</sub>)



**(3)** cerium sulfide (Ce<sub>2</sub>S<sub>3</sub>)



**(4)** erbium oxide (erbia) (Er<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>)



**(5)** hafnium oxide (hafnia) (HfO<sub>2</sub>)



**(6)** magnesium oxide (MgO)



**(7)** nitrided niobium-titanium-tungsten alloy (approximately 50%Nb, 30%Ti, 20%W)



**(8)** yttrium oxide (yttria) (Y<sub>2</sub>O<sub>3</sub>)



**(9)** zirconium oxide (zirconia) (ZrO<sub>2</sub>);





**(b)** crucibles with a volume of between 50 ml and 2 L and made of or lined with tantalum, having a purity of 99.9% or greater; and



**(c)** crucibles with a volume of between 50 ml and 2 L and made of or lined with tantalum (having a purity of 98% or greater) coated with tantalum carbide, nitride, or boride (or any combination of these).





**B.1.1.9** *Fibrous or filamentary materials, prepregs and composite structures, as follows:*

**(a)** carbon or aramid fibrous or filamentary materials having a specific modulus of 12.7 x 10<sup>6</sup> m or greater or a specific tensile strength of 23.5 x 10<sup>4</sup> m or greater, except aramid fibrous or filamentary materials having 0.25% or more by weight of an ester based fibre surface modifier;



**(b)** glass fibrous or filamentary materials having a specific modulus of 3.18 x 10<sup>6</sup> m or greater and a specific tensile strength of 7.62 x 10<sup>4</sup> m or greater; and



**(c)** thermoset resin impregnated continuous yarns, rovings, tows or tapes with a width no greater than 15 mm (prepregs), made from carbon or glass fibrous or filamentary materials specified in paragraph (a) or (b).

NOTE

The resin forms the matrix of the composite.







**(d)** composite structures in the form of tubes with an inside diameter of between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.) made with any of the fibrous or filamentary materials specified in paragraph (a) or carbon prepreg materials specified in paragraph (c).



NOTE

**(a)** ***fibrous or filamentary materials*** means continuous monofilaments, yarns, rovings, tows or tapes.



**(b)** ***specific modulus*** is the Young’s modulus in N/m<sup>2</sup> divided by the specific weight in N/m<sup>3</sup> when measured at a temperature of 23 ± 2°C and a relative humidity of 50 ± 5%.



**(c)** ***specific tensile strength*** is the ultimate tensile strength in N/m<sup>2</sup> divided by the specific weight in N/m<sup>3</sup> when measured at a temperature of 23 ± 2°C and a relative humidity of 50 ± 5%.







**B.1.1.10** Hafnium metal, alloys, compounds of hafnium containing more than 60% hafnium by weight, and their manufactures, and waste or scrap of any of these substances.



**B.1.1.11** Helium-3 or helium enriched in the helium-3 isotope; alloys, compounds or mixtures containing helium enriched in the helium-3 isotope; and helium conforming to this description contained in products or devices, except a product or device containing less than 1 g of helium-3.



**B.1.1.12** Lithium enriched in the lithium-6 isotope (<sup>6</sup>Li) to greater than 7.5 atom per cent; alloys, compounds, mixtures, and waste or scrap of lithium enriched in the lithium-6 isotope; and lithium conforming to this description contained in products or devices, except thermoluminescent dosimeters.

NOTE

The natural occurrence of the 6 isotope in lithium is 7.5 atom per cent.







**B.1.1.13** Magnesium (high purity) containing both less than 200 ppm by weight of metallic impurities other than calcium and less than 10 ppm of boron.



**B.1.1.14** Maraging steel capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 2 050 MPa (2.050 x 10<sup>9</sup> N/m<sup>2</sup>) (300,000 lbs./sq.in.) or more at 293 K (20°C), except forms in which no linear dimension exceeds 75 mm.

NOTE

The phrase “capable of” encompasses maraging steel before or after heat treatment.







**B.1.1.15** *Nickel powder and porous nickel metal, as follows:*

**(a)** powder with a nickel purity content of 99% or greater and a mean particle size of less than 10 µm measured by the ASTM B 330 standard, except filamentary nickel powders; and

NOTE

Nickel powders which are specially prepared for the manufacture of gaseous diffusion barriers are controlled under paragraph A.2.4.3.1.(b).







**(b)** porous nickel metal produced from materials referred to in paragraph (a), except single porous nickel metal sheets not exceeding 1 000 cm<sup>2</sup> per sheet.

NOTE



This refers to porous metal formed by compacting and sintering the material referred to in paragraph (a) to form a metal material with fine pores interconnected throughout the structure.







**B.1.1.16** Radium-226, radium-226 compounds, or mixtures containing radium-226, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing, except medical applicators and a product or device containing not more than 0.37 GBq (10 mCi) of radium-226 in any form.



**B.1.1.17** Titanium alloys capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 900 MPa (0.9 x 10<sup>9</sup> N/m<sup>2</sup>) (130,500 lbs./sq.in.) or more at 293 K (20°C) in the form of tubes or cylindrical solid forms (including forgings) with an outside diameter of more than 75 mm (3 in.).

NOTE

The phrase “capable of” encompasses titanium alloys before or after heat treatment.







**B.1.1.18** Tungsten, as follows: parts made of tungsten, tungsten carbide, or tungsten alloys (greater than 90% tungsten) having a mass greater than 20 kg and a hollow cylindrical symmetry (including cylinder segments) with an inside diameter greater than 100 mm (4 in.) but less than 300 mm (12 in.), except parts specifically designed for use as weights or gamma-ray collimators.



**B.1.1.19** Zirconium with a hafnium content of less than 1 part hafnium to 500 parts zirconium by weight, in the form of metal, alloys containing more than 50% zirconium by weight, and compounds and manufactures of these things; except zirconium in the form of foil having a thickness not exceeding 0.10 mm (0.004 in.).

NOTE

Paragraph B.1.1.19. applies to waste and scrap containing zirconium as defined above.







**B.1.1.20** Any substance not otherwise included in paragraph B.1. if the substance is intended, or there are reasonable grounds to suspect that it is intended, in whole or in part, for use in connection with the design, development, production, handling, operation, maintenance or storage of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.





### **B.2.** Controlled Nuclear Equipment

**B.2.1** Industrial equipment

**B.2.1.1** *Flow-forming machines and spin-forming machines capable of flow-forming functions, and mandrels, as follows, and specially designed software therefor:*

**(a)** having three or more rollers (active or guiding) and, according to the manufacturer’s technical specification, can be equipped with numerical control units or a computer control; and



**(b)** rotor-forming mandrels designed to form cylindrical rotors of inside diameter between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.).



NOTE

This paragraph includes machines which have only a single roller designed to deform metal plus two auxiliary rollers which support the mandrel, but do not participate directly in the deformation process.







**B.2.1.2** *Machine tools and specially designed software as follows:*

**(a)** machine tools, as set out below, and any combination of them, for removing or cutting metals, ceramics or composites, which, according to the manufacturer’s technical specifications, can be equipped with electronic devices for simultaneous contouring control in two or more axes:

**(1)** machine tools for turning, that have positioning accuracies with all compensations available better (less) than 0.006 mm according to ISO 230/2 (1988) along any linear axis (overall positioning) for machines capable of machining diameters greater than 35 mm;

NOTE

Paragraph B.2.1.2.(a)(1) does not include bar machines (Swissturn) limited to machining only bar feed thru, if the maximum bar diameter is equal to or less than 42 mm and there is no capability of mounting chucks. Machines may have drilling and/or milling capabilities for machining parts with diameters less than 42 mm.







**(2)** machine tools for milling having any of the following characteristics:

**(i)** positioning accuracies with all compensations available are better (less) than 0.006 mm according to ISO 230/2 (1988) along any linear axis (overall positioning);



**(ii)** two or more contouring rotary axes; or



**(iii)** five or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control;



NOTE

Paragraph B.2.1.2.(a)(2) does not include milling machines having the following characteristics:

**(a)** x-axis travel greater than 2 m; and



**(b)** overall positioning accuracy on the x-axis worse (more) than 0.030 mm according to ISO 230/2 (1988).









**(3)** machine tools for grinding having any of the following characteristics:

**(i)** positioning accuracies with all compensations available are better (less) than 0.004 mm according to ISO 230/2 (1988) along any linear axis (overall positioning);



**(ii)** two or more contouring rotary axes; or



**(iii)** five or more axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control; and



NOTE

Paragraph B.2.1.2.(a)(3) does not include the following grinding machines:

**(a)** cylindrical external, internal and external-internal grinding machines having all of the following characteristics:

**(i)** limited to a maximum workpiece capacity of 150 mm outside diameter or length; and



**(ii)** axes limited to x, z and c; and





**(b)** jig grinders that do not have a z-axis or a w-axis with an overall positioning accuracy less (better) than 0.004 mm (positioning accuracy is according to ISO 230/2 (1988)).









**(4)** non-wire type electrical discharge machines that have two or more contouring rotary axes and that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control; and

NOTE

Paragraph B.2.1.2.(a) does not include special purpose machine tools limited to the manufacture of any of the following parts:

**(a)** gears;



**(b)** crankshafts or camshafts;



**(c)** tools or cutters; and



**(d)** extruder worms.











**(b)** software:

**(1)** software specially designed or modified for the development, production or use of equipment referred to in paragraph B.2.1.2.(a); and



**(2)** software for any combination of electronic devices or systems enabling those devices to function as a numerical control unit capable of controlling five or more interpolating axes that can be coordinated simultaneously for contouring control.

NOTE

**1** Software is controlled whether exported separately or residing in a numerical control unit or any electronic device or system.



**2** Software specially designed or modified by the manufacturers of the control unit or machine tool to operate an uncontrolled machine tool is not controlled.











**B.2.1.3** *Dimensional inspection machines, instruments or systems, as follows, and software specially designed for them:*

**(a)** computer controlled or numerically controlled dimensional inspection machines having both of the following characteristics:

**(1)** two or more axes; and



**(2)** a one-dimensional length measurement uncertainty equal to or better (less) than (1.25 + L/1 000) µm tested with a probe of an accuracy of better (less) than 0.2 µm (L is the measured length in millimeters) (Ref. VDI/VDE 2617, parts 1 and 2);





**(b)** linear displacement measuring instruments, as follows:

**(1)** non-contact type measuring systems with a resolution equal to or better (less) than 0.2 µm within a measuring range of up to 0.2 mm;



**(2)** linear variable differential transformer systems having both of the following characteristics:

**(i)** linearity equal to or better (less) than 0.1% within a measuring range of up to 5 mm; and



**(ii)** drift equal to or better (less) than 0.1% per day at a standard ambient test room temperature of ± 1 K; or





**(3)** measuring systems that have both of the following characteristics:

**(i)** contain a laser; and



**(ii)** maintain for at least 12 hours over a temperature range of ± 1 K around a standard temperature and a standard pressure:

**(A)** a resolution over their full scale of 0.1 µm or better; and



**(B)** a measurement uncertainty equal to or better (less) than (0.2 + L/2 000) µm (L is the measured length in millimeters);







NOTE

Paragraph B.2.1.3.(b)(3) does not include measuring interferometer systems, without closed or open loop feedback, containing a laser to measure slide movement errors of machine tools, dimensional inspection machines or similar equipment.







**(c)** angular measuring instruments having an angular position deviation equal to or better (less) than 0.00025°; and

NOTE

Paragraph B.2.1.3.(c) does not include optical instruments, such as autocollimators, using collimated light (e.g. laser light) to detect angular displacement of a mirror.







**(d)** systems for simultaneous linear-angular inspection of hemishells, having both of the following characteristics:

**(1)** measurement uncertainty along any linear axis equal to or better (less) than 3.5 µm per 5 mm; and



**(2)** angular position deviation equal to or less than 0.02°.





NOTE

Specially designed software for these systems includes software for simultaneous measurements of wall thickness and contour.





NOTE

With respect to paragraph B.2.1.3.:

**(a)** machine tools that can be used as measuring machines are included if they meet or exceed the criteria specified for the machine tool function or the measuring machine function;



**(b)** machines are included if they exceed the control threshold anywhere within their operating range;



**(c)** the probe used in determining the measurement uncertainty of a dimensional inspection system shall be as described in VDI/VDE 2617, parts 2, 3 and 4; and



**(d)** all parameters of measurement values in paragraph B.2.1.3. represent plus/minus, i.e. not total band.









**B.2.1.4** Vacuum or controlled environment (inert gas) induction furnaces capable of operation above 850°C and having induction coils 600 mm (24 in.) or less in diameter, and designed for power inputs of 5 kW or more; and power supplies specially designed therefor with a specified power output of 5 kW or more.

NOTE

This paragraph does not include furnaces designed for the processing of semiconductor wafers.







**B.2.1.5** Isostatic presses capable of achieving a maximum working pressure of 69 MPa or greater having a chamber cavity with an inside diameter in excess of 152 mm and specially designed dies, molds, controls or specially designed software therefor.

NOTE

**1** The inside chamber dimension is that of the chamber in which both the working temperature and the working pressure are achieved and does not include fixtures. That dimension will be the smaller of either the inside diameter of the pressure chamber or the inside diameter of the insulated furnace chamber, depending on which of the two chambers is located inside the other.



**2** The term ***isostatic presses*** means equipment capable of pressurizing a closed cavity through various media (gas, liquid, solid particles, etc.) to create equal pressure in all directions within the cavity upon a workpiece or material.







**B.2.1.6** *Robots or end-effectors having either of the following characteristics; and specially designed software or specially designed controllers therefor:*

**(a)** specially designed to comply with national safety standards applicable to handling high explosives (for example, meeting electrical code ratings for high explosives); or



**(b)** specially designed or rated as radiation hardened to withstand greater than 5 x 10<sup>4</sup> Gy (Silicon) [5 x 10<sup>6</sup> rad (Silicon)] without operational degradation.



NOTES

**1** ***Robot*** means a manipulation mechanism, which may be of the continuous path or of the point-to-point variety, may use sensors, and has all of the following characteristics:

**(a)** is multifunctional;



**(b)** is capable of positioning or orienting material, parts, tools, or special devices through variable movements in three-dimensional space;



**(c)** incorporates three or more closed or open loop servo-devices which may include stepping motors; and



**(d)** has user-accessible programmability by means of teach/playback method or by means of an electronic computer which may be a programmable logic controlled, i.e., without mechanical intervention.



The above definition does not include the following devices:

**(a)** manipulation mechanisms which are only manually/teleoperator controllable;



**(b)** fixed sequence manipulation mechanisms which are automated moving devices operating according to mechanically fixed programmed motions. The program is mechanically limited by fixed stops, such as pins or cams. The sequence of motions and the selection of paths or angles are not variable or changeable by mechanical, electronic, or electrical means;



**(c)** mechanically controlled variable sequence manipulation mechanisms which are automated moving devices operating according to mechanically fixed programmed motions. The program is mechanically limited by fixed, but adjustable, stops such as pins or cams. The sequence of motions and the selection of paths or angles are variable within the fixed program pattern. Variations or modifications of the program pattern (e.g., changes of pins or exchanges of cams) in one or more motion axes are accomplished only through mechanical operations;



**(d)** non-servo-controlled variable sequence manipulation mechanisms which are automated moving devices, operating according to mechanically fixed programmed motions. The program is variable but the sequence proceeds only by the binary signal from mechanically fixed electrical binary devices or adjustable stops; or



**(e)** stacker cranes defined as Cartesian coordinate manipulator systems manufactured as an integral part of a vertical array of storage bins and designed to access the contents of those bins for storage or retrieval.







**2** ***End-effectors*** include grippers, active tooling units, and any other tooling that is attached to the baseplate on the end of a robot manipulator arm.



**3** The definition in paragraph 1(a) does not include robots specially designed for non-nuclear industrial applications such as automobile paint-spraying booths.







**B.2.1.7** *Vibration test systems, equipment, components and software therefor, as follows:*

**(a)** electrodynamic vibration test systems, employing feedback or closed loop control techniques and incorporating a digital controller, capable of vibrating at 10 g RMS or more between 20 Hz and 2 000 Hz and imparting forces of 50 kN (11,250 lbs.) measured bare table, or greater;



**(b)** digital controllers, combined with specially designed software for vibration testing, with a real-time bandwidth greater than 5 kHz and being designed for use with the systems referred to in paragraph (a);



**(c)** vibration thrusters (shaker units), with or without associated amplifiers, capable of imparting a force of 50 kN (11,250 lbs.), measured bare table, or greater, which are usable for the systems referred to in paragraph (a);



**(d)** test piece support structures and electronic units designed to combine multiple shaker units into a complete shaker system capable of providing an effective combined force of 50 kN, measured bare table, or greater, which are usable for the systems referred to in paragraph (a); and



**(e)** specially designed software for use with the systems referred to in paragraph (a) or for the electronic units referred to in paragraph (d).





**B.2.1.8** *Vacuum and controlled atmosphere metallurgical melting and casting furnaces as follows, and specially configured computer control and monitoring systems and specially designed software therefor:*

**(a)** arc remelt and casting furnaces with consumable electrode capacities between 1 000 cm<sup>3</sup> and 20 000 cm<sup>3</sup> and capable of operating with melting temperatures above 1 700°C; and



**(b)** electron beam melting and plasma atomization and melting furnaces with a power of 50 kW or greater and capable of operating with melting temperatures above 1 200°C.






**B.2.2** *Uranium isotope separation equipment and components (other than items listed in paragraph A.2.4.)*

**B.2.2.1** Electrolytic cells for fluorine production with a production capacity greater than 250 g of fluorine per hour.



**B.2.2.2** *Rotor fabrication and assembly equipment and bellows-forming mandrels and dies, as follows:*

**(a)** rotor assembly equipment for assembly of gas centrifuge rotor tube sections, baffles, and end caps. Such equipment includes precision mandrels, clamps, and shrink fit machines;



**(b)** rotor straightening equipment for alignment of gas centrifuge rotor tube sections to a common axis; and



**(c)** bellows-forming mandrels and dies for producing single-convolution bellows (bellows made of high-strength aluminium alloys, maraging steel, or high-strength filamentary materials). The bellows have all of the following dimensions:

**(1)** 75 mm to 400 mm (3 in. to 16 in.) inside diameter;



**(2)** 12.7 mm (0.5 in.) or more in length; and



**(3)** single convolution depth more than 2 mm (0.08 in.).







**B.2.2.3** *Centrifugal multiplane balancing machines, fixed or portable, horizontal or vertical, as follows:*

**(a)** centrifugal balancing machines designed for balancing flexible rotors having a length of 600 mm or more and having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** a swing or journal diameter of 75 mm or more;



**(2)** mass capability of from 0.9 kg to 23 kg (2 lbs. to 50 lbs.); and



**(3)** capable of balancing speed of revolution of more than 5 000 rpm; and





**(b)** centrifugal balancing machines designed for balancing hollow cylindrical rotor components and having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** a journal diameter of 75 mm or more;



**(2)** mass capability of from 0.9 kg to 23 kg (2 lbs. to 50 lbs.);



**(3)** capable of balancing to a residual imbalance of 0.010 kg mm/kg per plane or better; and



**(4)** belt drive type;



and specially designed software therefor.







**B.2.2.4** Filament winding machines in which the motions for positioning, wrapping, and winding fibres are coordinated and programmed in two or more axes, specially designed to fabricate composite structures or laminates from fibrous and filamentary materials and capable of winding cylindrical rotors of diameter between 75 mm (3 in.) and 400 mm (16 in.) and lengths of 600 mm (24 in.) or greater; coordinating and programming controls therefor, precision mandrels; and specially designed software therefor.



**B.2.2.5** *Frequency changers (also known as converters or inverters) or generators having all of the following characteristics:*

**(a)** multiphase output capable of providing a power of 40 W or more;



**(b)** capable of operating in the frequency range between 600 Hz and 2 000 Hz;



**(c)** total harmonic distortion better (less) than 10%; and



**(d)** frequency control better (less) than 0.1%.



NOTE

Frequency changers and generators especially designed or prepared for the gas centrifuge process are controlled under paragraph A.2.4.2.5.







**B.2.2.6** *Lasers, laser amplifiers, and oscillators as follows:*

**(a)** copper vapour lasers with 40 W or greater average output power operating at wavelengths between 500 nm and 600 nm;



**(b)** argon ion lasers with greater than 40 W average output power operating at wavelengths between 400 nm and 515 nm;



**(c)** neodymium-doped (other than glass) lasers with an output wavelength of between 1 000 nm and 1 100 nm having either of the following characteristics:

**(1)** pulse-excited and Q-switched with a pulse duration equal to or greater than 1 ns, and having either of the following characteristics:

**(i)** single-transverse mode output having an average output power exceeding 40 W; or



**(ii)** multiple-transverse mode output having an average output power exceeding 50 W; or





**(2)** frequency doubling incorporated to give an output wavelength of between 500 nm and 550 nm with an average output power at the doubled frequency (new wavelength) of greater than 40 W;





**(d)** tunable pulsed single-mode dye laser oscillators having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** operation at wavelengths of between 300 nm and 800 nm;



**(2)** average output power greater than 1 W;



**(3)** repetition rate greater than 1 kHz; and



**(4)** pulse width less than 100 ns;





**(e)** tunable pulsed dye laser amplifiers and oscillators, except single mode oscillators, having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** operation at wavelengths of between 300 nm and 800 nm;



**(2)** average output power greater than 30 W;



**(3)** repetition rate greater than 1 kHz; and



**(4)** pulse width less than 100 ns;





**(f)** alexandrite lasers having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** operation at wavelengths of between 720 nm and 800 nm;



**(2)** average output power greater than 30 W;



**(3)** repetition rate greater than 125 Hz; and



**(4)** bandwidth of 0.005 nm or less;





**(g)** pulsed carbon dioxide lasers having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** operation at wavelengths of between 9 000 nm and 11 000 nm;



**(2)** average output power greater than 500 W;



**(3)** repetition rate greater than 250 Hz; and



**(4)** pulse width less than 200 ns;



NOTE

Paragraph B.2.2.6.(g) does not include the higher power (typically 1 kW to 5 kW) industrial CO<sub>2</sub> lasers used in applications such as cutting and welding, as those lasers are either continuous wave or are pulsed with a pulse width of more than 200 ns.







**(h)** pulsed excimer lasers (XeF, XeCl, KrF) having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** operation at wavelengths of between 240 nm and 360 nm;



**(2)** average output power greater than 500 W; and



**(3)** repetition rate greater than 250 Hz; and





**(i)** para-hydrogen Raman shifters designed to operate at 16 µm output wavelength and at a repetition rate greater than 250 Hz.





**B.2.2.7** *Mass spectrometers capable of measuring ions of 230 atomic mass units or greater and having a resolution of better than 2 parts in 230, and ion sources therefor as follows:*

**(a)** inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers (ICP/MS);



**(b)** glow discharge mass spectrometers (GDMS);



**(c)** thermal ionization mass spectrometers (TIMS);



**(d)** electron bombardment mass spectrometers which have a source chamber constructed from or lined with or plated with materials resistant to UF<sub>6</sub>;



**(e)** molecular beam mass spectrometers as follows:

**(1)** which have a source chamber constructed from or lined with or plated with stainless steel or molybdenum and have a cold trap capable of cooling to 193 K (-80°C) or less; or



**(2)** which have a source chamber constructed from or lined with or plated with materials resistant to UF<sub>6</sub>; and





**(f)** mass spectrometers equipped with a microfluorination ion source designed for use with actinides or actinide fluorides; except specially designed or prepared magnetic or quadrupole mass spectrometers capable of taking on-line samples of feed, product or tails from UF<sub>6</sub> gas streams and having all of the following characteristics:

**(1)** unit resolution for mass greater than 320;



**(2)** ion sources constructed of or lined with nichrome or monel or nickel-plated;



**(3)** electron bombardment ionization sources; and



**(4)** having a collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.







**B.2.2.8** *Pressure transducers which are capable of measuring absolute pressure at any point in the range 0 kPa to 13 kPa, with pressure sensing elements made of or protected by nickel, nickel alloys with more than 60% nickel by weight, aluminium or aluminium alloys as follows:*

**(a)** transducers with a full scale of less than 13 kPa and an accuracy of better than ± 1% of full scale; and



**(b)** transducers with a full scale of 13 kPa or greater and an accuracy of better than ± 130 Pa.



NOTE

**1** Pressure transducers are devices that convert pressure measurements into an electrical signal.



**2** For the purpose of this paragraph, ***accuracy*** includes non-linearity, hysteresis and repeatability at ambient temperature.







**B.2.2.9** Valves 5 mm (0.2 in.) or greater in nominal size, with a bellows seal, wholly made of or lined with aluminium, aluminium alloy, nickel, or alloy containing 60% or more nickel, either manually or automatically operated.

NOTE

For valves with different inlet and outlet diameters, the nominal size parameter above refers to the smallest diameter.







**B.2.2.10** *Superconducting solenoidal electromagnets with all of the following characteristics:*

**(a)** capable of creating magnetic fields of more than 2 T (20 kilogauss);



**(b)** with an L/D (length divided by inner diameter) greater than 2;



**(c)** with an inner diameter of more than 300 mm; and



**(d)** with a magnetic field uniform to better than 1% over the central 50% of the inner volume.



NOTE

This paragraph does not cover magnets specially designed for and exported as parts of medical nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging systems. It is understood that the wording “as part of” does not necessarily mean physical part in the same shipment. Separate shipments from different sources are allowed, provided that the related export documents clearly specify the “part of” relationship.







**B.2.2.11** Vacuum pumps with an input throat size of 38 cm (15 in.) or greater with a pumping speed of 15,000 L/s or greater and capable of producing an ultimate vacuum better than 10<sup>4</sup> torrs (1.33 x 10<sup>-4</sup> mbar).

NOTE

**1** The ultimate vacuum is determined at the input of the pump with the input of the pump blocked off.

**2** The pumping speed is determined at the measurement point with nitrogen gas or air.









**B.2.2.12** Direct current high-power supplies capable of continuously producing, over a time period of 8 hours, 100 V or greater with current output of 500 amps or greater and with current or voltage regulation better than 0.1%.



**B.2.2.13** High-voltage direct current power supplies capable of continuously producing, over a time period of 8 hours, 20 000 V or greater with current output of 1 amp or greater and with current or voltage regulation better than 0.1%.



**B.2.2.14** Electromagnetic isotope separators, designed for or equipped with, single or multiple ion sources capable of providing a total ion beam current of 50 mA or greater.

NOTES

**1** This paragraph includes separators capable of enriching stable isotopes as well as those for uranium. A separator capable of separating the isotopes of lead with a one-mass unit difference is inherently capable of enriching the isotope of uranium with three-unit mass difference.



**2** This paragraph includes separators with the ion sources and collectors both in the magnetic field and those configurations in which they are external to the field.



**3** A single 50 mA ion source will produce less than 3 g of separated HEU per year from natural abundance feed.








**B.2.3** *Heavy water production plant-related equipment (other than items listed in paragraph A.2.5.).*

**B.2.3.1** Specialized packings for use in separating heavy water from ordinary water and made of phosphor bronze mesh (chemically treated to improve wettability) and designed for use in vacuum distillation towers.



**B.2.3.2** Pumps circulating solutions of diluted or concentrated potassium amide catalyst in liquid ammonia (KNH<sub>2</sub>/NH<sub>3</sub>), with all of the following characteristics:

**(a)** airtight (i.e., hermetically sealed);



**(b)** for concentrated potassium amide solutions (1% or greater), operating pressure of 1.5 MPa to 60 MPa (15 to 600 atmospheres); for dilute potassium amide solutions (less than 1%), operating pressure of 20 MPa to 60 MPa (200 to 600 atmospheres); and



**(c)** a capacity greater than 8.5 m<sup>3</sup>/h (5 cu.ft./ min.).





**B.2.3.3** Water-hydrogen sulfide exchange tray columns constructed from fine carbon steel with a diameter of 1.8 m or greater, which can operate at nominal pressures of 2 MPa (300 psi) or greater, and internal contactors therefor.

NOTES

**1** Internal contactors of the columns are segmented trays which have an effective assembled diameter of 1.8 m or greater, are designed to facilitate countercurrent contacting and are constructed of materials resistant to corrosion by hydrogen sulfide/water mixtures. These may be sieve trays, valve trays, bubble cap trays or turbogrid trays.



**2** Fine carbon steel in this paragraph is defined to be steel with the austenitic ASTM (or equivalent standard) grain size number of 5 or greater.



**3** Materials resistant to corrosion by hydrogen sulfide/water mixtures in this paragraph are defined to be stainless steels with a carbon content of 0.03% or less.







**B.2.3.4** *Hydrogen-cryogenic distillation columns having all of the following applications:*

**(a)** designed to operate with internal temperatures of -238°C (35 K) or less;



**(b)** designed to operate at internal pressure of 0.5 MPa to 5 MPa (5 to 50 atmospheres);



**(c)** constructed of fine-grain stainless steels of the 300 series with low sulphur content or equivalent cryogenic and H<sub>2</sub>-compatible materials; and



**(d)** with internal diameters of 1 m or greater and effective lengths of 5 m or greater.



NOTE

Fine-grain stainless steels in this paragraph are defined to be fine-grain austenitic stainless steels with an ASTM (or equivalent standard) grain size number of 5 or greater.







**B.2.3.5** Ammonia synthesis converters or synthesis units in which the synthesis gas (nitrogen and hydrogen) is withdrawn from an ammonia/hydrogen high-pressure exchange column and the synthesized ammonia is returned to said column.



**B.2.3.6** Turboexpanders or turboexpander-compressor sets designed for operation below 35 K and a throughput of hydrogen gas of 1 000 kg/h or greater.




**B.2.4** *Implosion systems development equipment*

**B.2.4.1** *Flash x-ray generators or pulsed electron accelerators with peak energy of 500 keV or greater, as follows, except accelerators that are component parts of devices designed for purposes other than electron beam or x-ray radiation (electron microscopy, for example) and those designed for medical purposes:*

**(a)** having an accelerator peak electron energy of 500 keV or greater but less than 25 MeV and with a figure of merit (K) of 0.25 or greater, where K is defined as:
```
K=1.7 x 10<sup>3</sup>V<sup>2.65</sup>Q;
```
where V is the peak electron energy in million electron volts and Q is the total accelerated charge in coulombs if the accelerator beam pulse duration is less than or equal to 1 µs, if the acceleration beam pulse duration is greater than 1 µs, Q is the maximum accelerated charge in 1 µs [Q equals the integral of i with respect to t, over the lesser of 1 µs or the time duration of the beam pulse (Q =ƒidt), where i is beam current in amperes and t is the time in seconds]; or



**(b)** having an accelerator peak electron energy of 25 MeV or greater and a peak power greater than 50 MW. [Peak power = (peak potential in volts) x (peak beam current in amperes).]



NOTES

**1** ***Time duration of the beam pulse*** means, in machines, based on microwave accelerating cavities, the time duration of the beam pulse is the lesser of 1 µs or the duration of the bunched beam packet resulting from one microwave modulator pulse.



**2** ***Peak beam current*** means, in machines, based on microwave accelerating cavities, the peak beam current is the average current in the time duration of a bunched beam packet.







**B.2.4.2** Multistage light gas guns or other high-velocity gun systems (coil, electromagnetic, electrothermal, or other advanced systems) capable of accelerating projectiles to 2 km/s or greater.



**B.2.4.3** *Mechanical rotating mirror cameras, as follows; and specially designed components therefor:*

**(a)** framing cameras with recording rates greater than 225 000 frames/s; and



**(b)** streak cameras with writing speeds greater than 0.5 mm/µs.



NOTE

Components of such cameras include their synchronizing electronics units and rotor assemblies consisting of turbines, mirrors, and bearings.







**B.2.4.4** *Electronic streak and framing cameras and tubes, as follows:*

**(a)** electronic streak cameras capable of 50 ns or less time resolution and streak tubes therefor;



**(b)** electronic (or electronically shuttered) framing cameras capable of 50 ns or less frame exposure time; and



**(c)** framing tubes and solid-state imaging devices for use with cameras controlled in paragraph (b) as follows:

**(1)** proximity focused image intensifier tubes having the photocathode deposited on a transparent conductive coating to decrease photocathode sheet resistance;



**(2)** gate silicon intensifier target (SIT) vidicon tubes, where a fast system allows gating the photoelectrons from the photocathode before they impinge on the SIT plate;



**(3)** Kerr or Pockels cell electro-optical shuttering; or



**(4)** other framing tubes and solid-state imaging devices having a fast image gating time of less than 50 ns specially designed for cameras controlled by paragraph (b).







**B.2.4.5** *Specialized instrumentation for hydrodynamic experiments, as follows:*

**(a)** velocity interferometers for measuring velocities in excess of 1 km/s during time intervals less than 10 µs (VISARs, Doppler laser interferometers, DLIs, etc.);



**(b)** manganin gauges for pressures greater than 100 kilobars; and



**(c)** quartz pressure transducers for pressures greater than 100 kilobars.






**B.2.5** *Explosives and related equipment*

**B.2.5.1** *Detonators and multipoint initiation systems (exploding bridge wire, slappers etc.):*

**(a)** electrically driven explosive detonators, as follows:

**(1)** exploding bridge (EB);



**(2)** exploding bridge wire (EBW);



**(3)** slapper; and



**(4)** exploding foil initiators (EFI); and





**(b)** arrangements using single or multiple detonators designed to nearly simultaneously initiate an explosive surface (over greater than 5 000 mm<sup>2</sup>) from a single firing signal (with an initiation timing spread over the surface of less than 2.5 µs).



NOTE

The detonators of concern all utilize a small electrical conductor (bridge, bridge wire or foil) that explosively vaporizes when a fast, high-current electrical pulse is passed through it. In nonslapper types, the exploding conductor starts a chemical detonation in a contacting high-explosive material such as PETN (pentaerythritoltetranitrate). In slapper detonators, the explosive vaporization of the electrical conductor drives a “flyer” or “slapper” across a chemical detonation. The slapper in some designs is driven by magnetic force. The term “exploding foil” detonator may refer to either an EB or a slapper-type detonator. Also, the word “initiator” is sometimes used in place of the word “detonator”.



Detonators using only primary explosives, such as lead azide, are not subject to control.







**B.2.5.2** *Electronic components for firing sets (switching devices and pulse discharge capacitors):*

**(a)** switching devices:

**(1)** cold-cathode tubes (including gas krytron tubes and vacuum sprytron tubes), whether gas filled or not, operating similarly to a spark gap, containing three or more electrodes, and having all of the following characteristics:

**(i)** anode peak voltage rating of 2 500 V or more;



**(ii)** anode peak current rating of 100 A or more; and



**(iii)** anode delay time of 10 µs or less;





**(2)** triggered spark-gaps having an anode delay time of 15 µs or less and rated for a peak current of 500 A or more; and



**(3)** modules or assemblies with a fast switching function having all of the following characteristics:

**(i)** anode peak voltage rating greater than 2 000 V;



**(ii)** anode peak current rating of 500 A or more; and



**(iii)** turn-on time of 1 µs or less; and







**(b)** capacitors with the following characteristics:

**(1)** voltage rating greater than 1.4 kV, energy storage greater than 10 J, capacitance greater than 0.5 µF, and series inductance less than 50 nH; or



**(2)** voltage rating greater than 750 V, capacitance greater than 0.25 µF, and series inductance less than 10 nH.







**B.2.5.3** *Firing sets and equivalent high-current pulse generators (for controlled detonators), as follows:*

**(a)** explosive detonator firing sets designed to drive multiple controlled detonators covered in paragraph B.2.5.1.; and



**(b)** modular electrical pulse generators (pulsers) designed for portable, mobile, or ruggedized-use (including xenon flash-lamp drivers) having all the following characteristics:

**(1)** capable of delivering their energy in less than 15 µs;



**(2)** having an output greater than 100 A;



**(3)** having a rise time of less than 10 µs into loads of less than 40 &omega;. (Rise time is defined as the time interval from 10% to 90% current amplitude when driving a resistive load);



**(4)** enclosed in a dust-tight enclosure;



**(5)** no dimension greater than 25.4 cm (10 in.);



**(6)** weight less than 25 kg (55 lbs.); and



**(7)** specified for use over an extended temperature range (-50°C to 100°C) or specified as suitable for aerospace use.







**B.2.5.4** *High explosives or substances or mixtures containing more than 2% of any of the following:*

**(a)** cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine (HMX);



**(b)** cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine (RDX);



**(c)** triaminotrinitrobenzene (TATB);



**(d)** any explosive with a crystal density greater than 1.8 g/cm<sup>3</sup> and having a detonation velocity greater than 8 000 m/s; or



**(e)** hexanitrostilbene (HNS).






**B.2.6** *Nuclear testing equipment and components*

**B.2.6.1** Photomultiplier tubes with a photocathode area greater than 20 cm<sup>2</sup> having an anode pulse rise time of less than 1 ns.



**B.2.6.2** High-speed pulse generators with output voltages greater than 6 V into a less than 55 &omega; resistive load, and with pulse transition times less than 500 ps (defined as the time interval between 10% and 90% voltage amplitude).




**B.2.7.  ***Other equipment*

**B.2.7.1** Neutron generator systems, including tubes, designed for operation without an external vacuum system and utilizing electrostatic acceleration to induce a tritium-deuterium nuclear reaction.



**B.2.7.2** *Equipment related to nuclear material handling and processing and to nuclear reactors, as follows:*

**(a)** remote manipulators that can be used to provide remote actions in radiochemical separation operations and hot cells, as follows:

**(1)** having a capability of penetrating 0.6 m or more of hot cell wall (through-the-wall operation); or



**(2)** having a capability of bridging over the top of a hot cell wall with a thickness of 0.6 m or more (over-the-wall operation);



NOTE

Remote manipulators provide translation of human operator actions to a remote operating arm and terminal fixture. They may be of a “master/slave” type or operated by joystick or keypad.







**(b)** high-density (lead glass or other) radiation shielding windows greater than 0.09 m<sup>2</sup> on cold area and with a density greater than 3 g/cm<sup>3</sup> and a thickness of 100 mm or greater; and specially designed frames therefor; and



**(c)** radiation-hardened TV cameras, or lenses therefor, specially designed or rated as radiation hardened to withstand greater than 5 x 10<sup>4</sup> Gy (Silicon) (5 x 10<sup>6</sup> rad (Silicon)) without operational degradation.





**B.2.7.3** *Tritium facilities, plants and equipment, as follows:*

**(a)** facilities or plants for the production, recovery, extraction, concentration or handling of tritium, tritium compounds or mixtures containing tritium; and



**(b)** equipment for those facilities or plants as follows:

**(1)** hydrogen or helium refrigeration units capable of cooling to 23 K (-250°C) or less, with heat removal capacity greater than 150 W; and



**(2)** hydrogen isotope storage and purification systems using metal hydrides as the storage or purification medium.







**B.2.7.4** Platinized catalysts specially designed or prepared for promoting the hydrogen isotope exchange reaction between hydrogen and water for the recovery of tritium from heavy water or for the production of heavy water.



**B.2.7.5** *Lithium isotope separation facilities, plants and equipment, as follows:*

**(a)** facilities or plants for the separation of lithium isotopes; and



**(b)** equipment for the separation of lithium isotopes, as follows:

**(1)** packed liquid-liquid exchange columns specially designed for lithium amalgams;



**(2)** mercury and lithium amalgam pumps;



**(3)** lithium amalgam electrolysis cells; and



**(4)** evaporators for concentrated lithium hydroxide solution.







**B.2.7.6** Any equipment not otherwise included in paragraph B.2. if the equipment is intended, or there are reasonable grounds to suspect that it is intended, in whole or in part, for use in connection with the design, development, production, handling, operation, maintenance or storage of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.





### **B.3.** Controlled Nuclear Information

**B.3.1** *Technology*

Technical data, including, but not limited to, technical drawings, models, photographic negatives and prints, recordings, design data and technical and operating manuals, whether in written form or recorded on other media or devices such as disk, tape and read-only memories for the design, production, construction, operation or maintenance of any item in this Part, except data available to the public (e.g. in published books or periodicals, or that which has been made available without restrictions on its further dissemination).




> SOR/2007-208, ss. 14 to 24(F), 25(E); SOR/2010-106, ss. 3 to 6, 7(E), 8(F), 9(F), 10 to 13, 14(F), 15 to 27.


