> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/103.md)

# Cigarette Ignition Propensity (Consumer Products) Regulations

**SOR/2016-103**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 20 May 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2016-103_e_hq_17840'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Cigarette Ignition Propensity (Consumer Products) Regulations.

<a name='fn_SOR-2016-103_e_hq_17840'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definition of cigarette**

**1** In these Regulations, ***cigarette*** means any roll or tubular construction that contains tobacco, has a wrapper or cover made of paper and is consumed through the inhalation of the products of combustion. It does not include a bidi, cigar, little cigar or kretek.




## Application



**Non-application**

**2** These Regulations do not apply to cigarettes that are imported by an organization for
- **(a)** research; or
- **(b)** laboratory testing or analysis.




## Ignition Propensity Standard



**Standard**

**3** 

- **(1)** Cigarettes of every size of each brand must burn their full length no more than 25% of the time when tested on 10 layers of filter paper using the International Organization for Standardization standard ISO 12863, entitled Standard test method for assessing the ignition propensity of cigarettes (ISO 12863), as amended from time to time.

**Testing**

- **(2)** In each test, the cigarettes that are burned in every determination must be of the same size and of the same brand.

**Definition of determination**

- **(3)** For the purpose of this section, ***determination*** has the same meaning as in ISO 12863.




## Coming Into Force



**180 days after registration**

<sup><a href='#fn_IndFBDC_hq_17872'>[*]</a></sup>**4** These Regulations come into force 180 days after the day on which they are registered.

<a name='fn_IndFBDC_hq_17872'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force November 17, 2016.]<br />


