> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/172.md)

# Corded Window Covering Products Regulations

**SOR/2016-172**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 22 June 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-TEXTILE'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Corded Window Covering Products Regulations.

<a name='fn_81200-2-TEXTILE'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***corded window covering product*** means an interior window covering that incorporates a bead chain, cord or any type of flexible looped device in its operation. (*couvre-fenêtre à cordon*)

***national standard*** means the standard CAN/CSA‑Z600 published by the Canadian Standards Association, entitled Safety of corded window covering products, as amended from time to time. (*norme nationale*)

***responsible person*** means
- **(a)** the manufacturer, in the case of a corded window covering product that is manufactured in Canada; and
- **(b)** the importer, in the case of a corded window covering product that is imported. (*responsable*)




## Safety Requirements



**Standard**

**2** A corded window covering product must meet the product safety requirements of the national standard.




## Information



**Reference to [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) or Regulations**

**3** Information that appears on a corded window covering product or that is in any advertisement for one, must not make any direct or indirect reference to the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) or these Regulations.




**Standard**

**4** A corded window covering product must meet the information and labelling requirements of the national standard.




## Documents



**Retention period**

**5** 

- **(1)** The responsible person must prepare and maintain documents that show that a corded window covering product meets the requirements of these Regulations and must keep those documents for a period of at least three years after the day on which the product is manufactured in Canada or the day on which it is imported.

**Inspector’s request**

- **(2)** The responsible person must provide an inspector with any of the documents that the inspector requests in writing, within 15 days after the day on which the request is received.




## Repeal


**6** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**7** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


