> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/174.md)

# Glass Doors and Enclosures Regulations

**SOR/2016-174**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 22 June 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2016-174_e_hq_18681'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Glass Doors and Enclosures Regulations.

<a name='fn_SOR-2016-174_e_hq_18681'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***glass door or enclosure*** means the following products when they are for domestic use:
- **(a)** a bathtub or shower door or enclosure that is made of glass or that contains a pane of glass;
- **(b)** a storm door that is made of glass or that contains a pane of glass; and
- **(c)** an exterior door, other than a storm door, that contains a pane of glass that has an area greater than 0.5 m<sup>2</sup> and whose lowest edge is less than 900 mm from the bottom edge of the door. (*portes et enceintes contenant du verre*)

***laminated glass*** means glass that is formed when two or more sheets of glass are bonded to an intervening layer or layers of plastic material. (*verre feuilleté*)

***responsible person*** means
- **(a)** the manufacturer, in the case of a glass door or enclosure that is manufactured in Canada; and
- **(b)** the importer, in the case of a glass door or enclosure that is imported. (*responsable*)

***safety glass*** means laminated, tempered or wired glass. (*verre de sécurité*)

***safety glass standard*** means the Canadian General Standards Board standard CAN/CGSB‑12.1‑M90, entitled Tempered or Laminated Safety Glass, published in November 1990. (*norme sur le verre de sécurité*)

***tempered glass*** means glass that has been treated chemically or thermally so that, on fracture, it disintegrates into many small granular pieces. (*verre trempé*)

***wired glass*** means glass into which a wire mesh has been embedded. (*verre armé*)

***wired safety glass standard*** means the Canadian General Standards Board standard CAN/CGSB‑12.11‑M90, entitled Wired Safety Glass, published in November 1990. (*norme sur le verre de sécurité armé*)




## Safety Glass Requirements



**Requirements**

**2** The glass that is contained in a glass door or enclosure must be a safety glass set out in column 1 of the table to this section that, when tested in accordance with the applicable test referred to in column 2, meets the requirement for that test set out in column 3.
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Safety glass</th>
<th>Test</th>
<th>Requirement</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Laminated glass</td>
<td>**(1)** Boiling water test in paragraph 7.2.2 of the safety glass standard

</td>
<td>**(1)** No bubbles or other defects develop beyond 12 mm from the outer edge of the glass or from any crack that develops.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Impact test in paragraph 7.2.3 of the safety glass standard

</td>
<td>**(2)** No opening occurs that would permit free passage of a 75 mm diameter steel sphere.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Tempered glass</td>
<td>Impact test in paragraph 7.2.3 of the safety glass standard</td>
<td>If breakage of the test specimen occurs, the total mass of the 10 largest fragments does not exceed the mass of 6 500 mm<sup>2</sup> of the unbroken test specimen.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Wired glass</td>
<td>Impact test in paragraph 8.2.2 of the wired safety glass standard</td>
<td>**(a)** No opening occurs that would permit free passage of a 75 mm diameter steel sphere.

**(b)** The glass adjacent to each crack extending from the impact area is held in place by the reinforcing material.

**(c)** Small fragments of glass from both sides of the test specimen at or immediately around the point of impact may become detached, but no piece loosens or detaches from any other part of the test specimen.

</td>
</tr>
</table>





## Documents



**Retention period**

**3** 

- **(1)** The responsible person must prepare and maintain documents that show that a glass door or enclosure meets the requirements of these Regulations and must keep those documents for a period of at least four years after the day on which the glass door or enclosure is manufactured in Canada or the day on which it is imported.

**Inspector’s request**

- **(2)** The responsible person must provide an inspector with any of the documents that the inspector requests in writing, within 15 days after the day on which the request is received.




## Repeal


**4** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**5** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


