> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/178.md)

# Charcoal Regulations

**SOR/2016-178**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 22 June 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-TEXTILE_hc'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Charcoal Regulations.

<a name='fn_81200-2-TEXTILE_hc'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***charcoal*** means charcoal for use in domestic cooking or heating. (*charbon de bois*)

***principal display surface*** means the surface of a container containing charcoal that is displayed or visible at the time the charcoal is sold to the consumer or when it is used. (*aire d’affichage principale*)




## Requirements



**Warning**

**2** The container in which the charcoal is sold to the consumer must, on each principal display surface, carry a warning in English and in French that meets the requirements of section 3 and clearly conveys the following information:
- **(a)** toxic fumes may occur and cause death if the charcoal is burned without adequate ventilation; and
- **(b)** the charcoal should not be used for cooking or heating indoors without a ventilation system that carries all the fumes outdoors.




**Presentation**

**3** 

- **(1)** The warning must
	- **(a)** begin with the words “Warning” in English and “*Avertissement*” in French;
	- **(b)** be easily legible and shown clearly and prominently;
	- **(c)** be set apart from other information or visual images on the container; and
	- **(d)** be enclosed by a borderline.

**Colour**

- **(2)** The warning and the borderline enclosing it must be of a colour that contrasts sharply with the background on which they are shown.

**Typeface and letter size**

- **(3)** The warning must be shown in bold-face or medium-face type with
	- **(a)** the words “Warning” and “*Avertissement*” in letters of not less than 9 mm in height; and
	- **(b)** the information set out in paragraph 2(b) in letters of not less than 4.5 mm in height.




## Repeal


**4** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**5** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


