> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/184.md)

# Pacifiers Regulations

**SOR/2016-184**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 22 June 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-TEXTILE_hc'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Pacifiers Regulations.

<a name='fn_81200-2-TEXTILE_hc'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definition of pacifier**

**1** In these Regulations, ***pacifier*** means a pacifier that has a nipple and includes a similar product that is intended for use in a baby’s mouth.




## Specifications



**Toxic substance**

**2** Any pacifier that contains a toxic substance must comply with section 25 of the [Toys Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2011/17.md) in relation to that substance.




**Limit of volatile N-nitrosamines**

**3** A pacifier must not contain more than 10 µg/kg total volatile N-nitrosamines, as determined by dichloromethane extraction.




**Hazards**

**4** A pacifier must be free from any part that may cause, under reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, injury to the user due to the following hazards:
- **(a)** obstruction of the pharyngeal orifice;
- **(b)** strangulation;
- **(c)** ingestion or aspiration of the pacifier or any of its parts; and
- **(d)** wounding.




**Additional requirements**

**5** A pacifier must meet the following requirements:
- **(a)** the nipple must be attached to a guard of such dimensions that it cannot pass through the opening in the template illustrated in Schedule 1 when the nipple is centered on the opening and a force of 9.8 N is applied axially to the nipple in such a way as to induce the guard to pull through the opening in the template;
- **(b)** when tested in accordance with Schedule 2,
	- **(i)** the nipple must remain attached to the guard, and
	- **(ii)** any part that separates from the pacifier must not, in a non-compressed state, fit entirely into the small parts cylinder illustrated in Schedule 3;
- **(c)** any loop of cord or other material that is attached to the pacifier must not be more than 356 mm in circumference; and
- **(d)** any ring or handle must be hinged, collapsible or flexible.




## Information



**Reference to [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) or Regulations**

**6** 

- **(1)** Written information that appears on a pacifier, that accompanies one or that is in any advertisement for one must not make any direct or indirect reference to the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) or these Regulations.

**Representations — use or modification**

- **(2)** Any written information that appears on or that accompanies a pacifier, and any advertisement of one, must not make representations in respect of the use of or modification to the pacifier that would result in the failure of the pacifier to meet a requirement of these Regulations.




## Repeal


**7** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**8** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Paragraph 5(a))**
## Guard Template
> Image: The guard template is rectangular, made of aluminum plate and is 101.6 mm long, 68.6 mm wide and 3.2 mm thick. There is an opening in the middle formed by a circle with a diameter of 42.7 mm, with two triangles opposed at their summits, in the shape of a bowtie. The length of the opening, from one triangle base to the other, is 76.2 mm.




### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Paragraph 5(b))**
## Structural Integrity Test
**1** The following method is to be used for testing the structural integrity of the pacifier:
- **(a)** hold the nipple of the pacifier in a fixed position and apply to the ring or handle of the pacifier a force of 44.5  ± 1.0 N in the plane of the axis of the nipple at a rate of 4.5 ± 1.0 N/s and then maintain the final force for 10 ± 0.5 s;
- **(b)** hold the guard of the pacifier in a fixed position and apply to the ring or handle of the pacifier a force of  44.5 ± 1.0 N in the plane perpendicular to the axis of the nipple at a rate of 4.5 ± 1.0 N/s and then maintain the final force for 10 ± 0.5 s;
- **(c)** repeat the procedure described in paragraph (b) with the force applied to the nipple of the pacifier;
- **(d)** immerse the pacifier in boiling water for 10 ± 0.5 min, then remove the pacifier from the boiling water and allow to cool in air at 21 ± 5° C for 15 ± 0.5 min;
- **(e)** repeat the procedures described in paragraphs (a) to (c); and
- **(f)** repeat the procedures described in paragraphs (d) and (e) nine times.





### **SCHEDULE 3** 
**(Subparagraph 5(b)(ii))**
## Small Parts Cylinder
> Image: A sectional view of the small parts cylinder which is a hollow cylinder with an inner diameter of 31.7 mm. The inner base of the cylinder is diagonal at a 45° angle so that the minimum depth of the cylinder is 25.4 mm and the maximum depth of the cylinder is 57.1 mm.


