> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/188.md)

# Phthalates Regulations

**SOR/2016-188**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 22 June 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2016-188_e_hq_18683'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Phthalates Regulations.

<a name='fn_SOR-2016-188_e_hq_18683'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***child care article*** means a product that is intended to facilitate the relaxation, sleep, hygiene, feeding, sucking or teething of a child under four years of age. (*article de puériculture*)

***good laboratory practices*** means practices that are in accordance with the principles set out in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development document entitled OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice, Number 1 of the OECD Series on Principles of Good Laboratory Practice and Compliance Monitoring, ENV/MC/CHEM(98)17, the English version of which is dated January 21, 1998 and the French version of which is dated March 6, 1998. (*bonnes pratiques de laboratoire*)

***toy*** means a product that is intended for use by a child under 14 years of age in learning or play. (*jouet*)




## Requirements



**DEHP, DBP and BBP**

**2** The vinyl in a toy or child care article must not contain more than 1 000 mg/kg of di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP) or benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP) when tested in accordance with a method that conforms to good laboratory practices.




**DINP, DIDP and DNOP**

**3** 

- **(1)** The vinyl in any part of a toy or child care article that can, in a reasonably foreseeable manner, be placed in the mouth of a child under four years of age must not contain more than 1 000 mg/kg of diisononyl phthalate (DINP), diisodecyl phthalate (DIDP) or di-n-octyl phthalate (DNOP) when tested in accordance with a method that conforms to good laboratory practices.

**Interpretation**

- **(2)** For the purpose of subsection (1), a part of a toy or child care article can be placed in the mouth of a child under four years of age if
	- **(a)** it can be brought to the child’s mouth and kept there so that it can be sucked or chewed; and
	- **(b)** one of its dimensions is less than 5 cm.

**Dimensions — deflated state**

- **(3)** For the purpose of paragraph (2)(b), if a part of a toy or child care article is inflatable, its dimensions must be determined in its deflated state.




## Repeal


**4** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**5** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


