> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/192.md)

# Science Education Sets Regulations

**SOR/2016-192**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 22 June 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-TEXTILE_hc'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Science Education Sets Regulations.

<a name='fn_81200-2-TEXTILE_hc'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***oral LD<sub>50</sub> value*** means the single dose of a substance that, when administered orally in an animal assay, is expected to cause the death of at least 50% of a defined population of animals. (*DL<sub>50</sub> orale*)

***replacement chemical*** means a chemical product, as defined in the [Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations, 2001](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/269.md), for restocking a science education set. (*produit chimique de rechange*)

***science education set*** means a collection of products, materials or substances that contains a chemical product as defined in the [Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations, 2001](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/269.md) and that is for the purpose of instructing the user about a science. (*trousse d’expérience scientifique*)




## Restrictions



**Chemicals — restrictions**

**2** 

- **(1)** A chemical that is listed in the schedule or a chemical, the oral LD<sub>50</sub> value of which is equal to or less than 50 mg/kg of the body weight of the test animal, must not be
	- **(a)** included in a science education set;
	- **(b)** a replacement chemical; or
	- **(c)** subject to subsection (2), required in any experiment described in the instructions accompanying the science education set or the replacement chemical.

**Exception**

- **(2)** The instructions accompanying a science education set or a replacement chemical may require the use of methanol for the purpose of operating a spirit lamp.




**Sale**

**3** A chemical included in a science education set and any replacement chemical must not be sold in an amount that is more than five times the oral LD<sub>50</sub> value of that chemical calculated for a child of 20 kg body weight.




## Packaging



**Container**

**4** A chemical included in a science education set, if it is a chemical product as defined in the [Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations, 2001](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/269.md), and any replacement chemical, must be packaged in a container that meets the requirements of those Regulations.




## Information



**Presentation**

**5** The information that is required by these Regulations must
- **(a)** appear in English and French;
- **(b)** be clearly and prominently shown and appear in distinct contrast to other information or visual images; and
- **(c)** be readily discernible to the consumer at the time of sale or during reasonably foreseeable use.




**Science education set — information**

**6** Every science education set must
- **(a)** contain or display on its container directions for the safe use of the chemicals that it contains; and
- **(b)** display, on its container and in any literature accompanying it, the following statement:WARNING. This set contains chemicals that may be harmful if misused. Read the information in the instruction manual. If splashed in the eyes, or on skin, flush thoroughly with water. Get medical attention immediately if splashed in eyes. Not to be used by children except under adult supervision. Not recommended for children under 12 years of age.

*AVERTISSEMENT. Ce nécessaire contient des produits chimiques qui peuvent être nocifs s’ils sont mal utilisés. Lire les indications de la brochure d’instructions. En cas d’éclaboussures sur la peau ou dans les yeux, bien rincer à grande eau. Recourir immédiatement aux soins du médecin si les yeux ont été touchés. Ne doit pas être utilisé par des enfants qui ne sont pas sous la surveillance d’un adulte. Contre-indiqué pour les enfants de moins de 12 ans.*






**Chemicals — information**

**7** A chemical included in a science education set and any replacement chemical must be packaged in a container that displays the following information:
- **(a)** the common name of the chemical or its name as accepted by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry;
- **(b)** if the oral LD<sub>50</sub> value of the chemical is more than 50 mg/kg but less than 2000 mg/kg of the body weight of the test animal, the hazard symbol set out in item 1, column 2, of Schedule 2 to the [Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations, 2001](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/269.md), in accordance with the requirements for hazard symbols set out in paragraph 17(b) and sections 18, 21, 22, 25 and 26 of those Regulations; and
- **(c)** if the chemical is a chemical product as defined in the [Consumer Chemicals and Containers Regulations, 2001](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/269.md), the hazard symbols and the information that are required to be displayed on its container in accordance with those Regulations.




**Prohibition — pathogenic micro-organisms**

**8** A science education set must not contain or display on its container any instruction for, description of or words that suggest a test or procedure be performed
- **(a)** to cultivate or demonstrate the presence of a pathogenic micro-organism; or
- **(b)** to cultivate any micro-organism that is in or comes from a product or substance that may contain pathogenic micro-organisms or to demonstrate the presence of any micro-organism in such a product or substance.




## Repeal


**9** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**10** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
**1** Inorganic acids other than an aqueous solution of hydrochloric acid that contains less than 5% of the acid


**2** Organic acids other than an aqueous solution of acetic acid that contains less than 5% of the acid


**3** Ammonium hydroxide


**4** Potassium hydroxide and sodium hydroxide other than an aqueous solution that contains a maximum of 1% potassium hydroxide or sodium hydroxide


**5** Oxidizing compounds other than an aqueous solution that contains a maximum of 10% ammonium nitrate, potassium chlorate, potassium perchlorate, potassium nitrate, strontium nitrate or other oxidizing compound


**6** Potassium permanganate other than an aqueous solution that contains a maximum of 10% potassium permanganate


**7** Manganese dioxide


**8** Hydrogen peroxide other than an aqueous solution that contains a maximum of 3% hydrogen peroxide


**9** Methanol


**10** Carbon tetrachloride



