> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2016/48.md)

# Ste. Anne’s Hospital Divestiture Regulations

**SOR/2016-48**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PUBLIC SERVICE SUPERANNUATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md)

- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 17 March 2016

----------

The Treasury Board, on the recommendation of the President of the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 42.1(1)(u)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> and subsection 42.1(2)<sup><a href='#fn_b'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md)<sup><a href='#fn_c'>[c]</a></sup> and paragraph 7(2)(a) of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)<sup><a href='#fn_d'>[d]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Ste. Anne’s Hospital Divestiture Regulations.

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2003, c. 22, subpar. 225(z.19)(xxxiv)<br />

<a name='fn_b'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2012, c. 31, s. 499(3)<br />

<a name='fn_c'><sup>c</sup></a>: R.S., c. P-36<br />

<a name='fn_d'><sup>d</sup></a>: R.S., c. F-11<br />




**Application**

**1** 

- **(1)** These Regulations apply to a person who, by reason of an agreement between the Government of Canada, the Government of Quebec and the *Centre intégré universitaire de santé et de services sociaux de l’Ouest-de-l’Île-de-Montréal* (the “Centre”), dated April 16, 2015, ceases to be employed in the public service and becomes employed by the Centre.

**Exception — person re-employed**

- **(2)** However, these Regulations do not apply to a person who is re-employed by the Centre.

**Exceptions — survivor and children**

- **(3)** Moreover, sections 2, 3 and 7 do not apply to the survivor and children of a person who has received a return of contributions or has exercised an option under subsection 6(2).




**Subsection 10(5) of Act**

**2** For the purposes of subsection 10(5) of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md) (the “Act”), the one-year period referred to in paragraph (a) of that subsection begins on the day on which the person ceases to be employed by the Centre.




**Benefits — survivor and children**

**3** The survivor and children of a person who dies while employed by the Centre are entitled to one of the following benefits to which they would have been entitled if the person had been employed in the public service:
- **(a)** the death benefit under subsection 12(8) or 12.1(8) of the Act; or
- **(b)** the allowances referred to in subsection 13(3) or 13.001(3) of the Act.




**Sections 12 to 13.001 of Act**

**4** For the purposes of sections 12 to 13.001 of the Act, a person’s age when they cease to be employed in the public service is their age on the day on which they cease to be employed by the Centre.




**Pensionable service**

**5** For the purposes of sections 12 to 13.01 of the Act, pensionable service includes the period of service that begins on the day on which a person ceases to be employed in the public service and ends on the day on which they cease to be employed by the Centre.




**When certain provisions are applicable**

**6** 

- **(1)** Sections 12 to 13.01 of the Act only apply to a person beginning on the day on which they cease to be employed by the Centre.

**Exceptions**

- **(2)** However, if on or after April 1, 2016 the person would be entitled to a return of contributions under subsection 12(3) or 12.1(4) of the Act, were it not for these Regulations, they may request, in writing, the return of contributions no later than one year after the day on which they cease to be employed in the public service and become employed by the Centre, and if, in the same circumstances, they would be entitled to exercise an option under section 13.01 of the Act, they may exercise the option within the same period.




**Subsection 26(2) of Act**

**7** For the purposes of subsection 26(2) of the Act, a person is deemed to cease to be employed in the public service on the day on which they cease to be employed by the Centre.




**Coming into force**

**8** These Regulations come into force on April 1, 2016.


