> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2014/253.md)

# Royal Canadian Mounted Police Casual Employment Regulations

**SOR/2014-253**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md)

Date registered: 6 November 2014

----------

The Public Service Commission, pursuant to paragraph 22(2)(j)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md)<sup><a href='#fn_b'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Royal Canadian Mounted Police Casual Employment Regulations.

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2013, c. 18, s. 59<br />

<a name='fn_b'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2003, c. 22, ss. 12 and 13<br />

Ottawa, November 3, 2014
<p>ANNE-MARIE ROBINSON<br />*President of the Public Service Commission*<br />SUSAN M. W. CARTWRIGHT<br />*Commissioner*<br />D. G. J. TUCKER<br />*Commissioner*<br /></p>




**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***major event*** means an event of national or international significance that is held within or outside Canada and in which the Royal Canadian Mounted Police is involved, including an official visit to Canada by Her Majesty, members of the Royal Family, a head of state or a representative of a foreign government, or a sporting event, conference, summit or exhibition. (*évènement majeur*)

***major investigation*** includes an investigation of national or international interest or of a complex case in which the Royal Canadian Mounted Police is involved. (*enquête majeure*)

***operation*** means an activity in which the Royal Canadian Mounted Police is involved that is necessary and that relates to the protection of the public. (*opération*)




**Circumstances for appointment**

**2** For the purpose of subsection 50.2(1) of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md), a person may be appointed as a casual worker to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police for a period of more than 90 working days in one calendar year for a major investigation, a major event or an operation if the services of the person are required as a result of unforeseen circumstances such as an unknown duration or the unexpected need for a particular skill.




**S.C. 2013, c. 18**

<sup><a href='#fn_Ind6DFA_hq_14817'>[*]</a></sup>**3** These Regulations come into force on the day on which sections 59 and 60 of the Enhancing Royal Canadian Mounted Police Accountability Act come into force, but if they are registered after that day, they come into force on the day on which they are registered.

<a name='fn_Ind6DFA_hq_14817'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force November 28, 2014, *see* SI/2014-104.]<br />


