> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2014/278.md)

# Textiles and Apparel Remission Order, 2014

**SOR/2014-278**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CUSTOMS TARIFF](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)

Date registered: 28 November 2014

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness, pursuant to section 115<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_14302'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_14303'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Textiles and Apparel Remission Order, 2014.

<a name='fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_14302'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2005, c. 38, par. 145(2)(j)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_14303'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1997, c. 36<br />




## Remission


**1** 

- **(1)** Remission is granted to the companies set out in Schedule 1 of customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) in respect of goods for which the Canada Border Services Agency, in error, issued authorizations for remission of customs duties in the course of its administration of the initial remission orders set out in column 1 of Schedule 2.

- **(2)** The amount of the remission granted to each company is calculated in accordance with the initial remission order under which the authorization for remission was issued.




## Conditions


**2** The remission is granted to each company on the following conditions:
- **(a)** the goods were imported into Canada during the period beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending on December 31, 2012;
- **(b)** the authorization for remission was issued to the company on or before December 31, 2012; and
- **(c)** an application for the remission is received by the Canada Border Services Agency on or before the deadline set out in column 2 of Schedule 2 in respect of the initial remission order under which the authorization for remission was issued.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Subsection 1(1))**
- 4033167 Canada Inc.
- Basic Fashion Service (1422545 Ontario Inc.)
- Beker Fashions
- Honey Fashions Ltd.
- Lana-Lee Fashions Inc.
- Nikaldi Sportwear Inc.
- SCP Collections Inc.
- T. Lipson & Sons Ltd.
- 7131780 Canada Inc.
- 9201-2392 Québec Inc.
- Behar Cline Manufacturing Ltd.
- Innotex Inc.
- Chemises L. & L. Lessard Inc.
- Suzy’s Inc.
- Canadian Uniform Limited
- Premium Uniforms Inc.
- Nygard International Ltd.
- BVD Shirts Inc.	
- Le Chateau Inc.
- 4459792 Canada Inc.
- Creations Claire Bell Inc.
- Delmar International
- Tribal Sportswear Company
- Triple G Manufacturing Inc.
- Kelsey Sportswear Ltd.
- Winnipeg Pants & Sportswear MFG. LTD.
- Peerless Garments LP



### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Subsection 1(1) and paragraph 2(c))**
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Initial Remission Order</th>
<th>Deadline for Receipt of Application for Remission</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>[Tailored Collar Shirts Remission Order, 1997](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/97/291.md)</td>
<td>five years after importation of the goods</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>[Outerwear Greige Fabrics Remission Order, 1998](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/98/86.md)</td>
<td>three years after importation of the goods</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Shirting Fabrics Remission Order, 1998</td>
<td>five years after importation of the goods</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>[Outerwear Apparel Remission Order, 1998](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/98/88.md)</td>
<td>five years after importation of the goods</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>[Blouses, Shirts and Co-ordinates Remission Order, 1998](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/98/89.md)</td>
<td>five years after importation of the goods</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>[Outerwear Fabrics Remission Order, 1998](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/98/90.md)</td>
<td>three years after importation of the goods</td>
</tr>
</table>


