> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2014/293.md)

# Commissioner’s Standing Orders (General Administration)

**SOR/2014-293**

Enabling authorities: 
- [ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-10.md)

Date registered: 28 November 2014

----------

The Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, pursuant to paragraphs 21(2)(e)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> and (m)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> and subsection 47.1(3)<sup><a href='#fn_b'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Royal Canadian Mounted Police Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-10.md)<sup><a href='#fn_c'>[c]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Commissioner’s Standing Orders (General Administration).

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2013, c. 18, s. 14(2)<br />

<a name='fn_b'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2013, c. 18, s. 37<br />

<a name='fn_c'><sup>c</sup></a>: R.S., c. R-10<br />

Ottawa, November 25, 2014
<p>BOB PAULSON<br />*Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police*<br /></p>




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Standing Orders.

***Act*** means the [Royal Canadian Mounted Police Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-10.md). (*Loi*)

***lounge*** means a facility located in a building occupied by the Force where alcohol may be served to any person under the Commissioner’s jurisdiction, individuals undergoing police training and their guests. (*bar*)

***mess*** means a place that is operated and administered to provide services to members of a mess association. (*mess*)

***Regulations*** means the [Royal Canadian Mounted Police Regulations, 2014](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2014/281.md). (*Règlement*)




## Duties and Functions of Members Who Are Peace Officers



**Additional duties and functions**

**2** In addition to the duties prescribed by the Act and the Regulations, members who are peace officers are required to perform duties and functions of an operational, administrative, scientific or technical nature, including duties in support of those duties and functions.




## Messes and Lounges



**Mess establishment and dissolution**

**3** 

- **(1)** Subject to the approval of the Commissioner, members may establish, determine the membership structure and dissolve a Force mess.

**Approval of Commissioner**

- **(2)** The Commissioner may approve the establishment, dissolution and membership structure of Force messes.




**Mess association**

**4** 

- **(1)** Members of a mess must establish a mess association, consisting of members of the Force organized on the basis of geographical area and rank.

**Mess constitution**

- **(2)** Each mess association must establish a mess constitution that provides for the operation of the mess and includes a provision for the election of a mess committee that is responsible for the operation and administration of the mess.




**Mess membership**

**5** 

- **(1)** Every regular member, other than a special constable, is a member of the mess established for the member’s rank in the geographical area where the member is physically posted.

**Obligations**

- **(2)** Every mess member must observe the mess constitution, and pay any fees that it requires, for the mess of which they are a member.

**Other members of mess**

- **(3)** Special constable members, civilian members and civilian employees may become members of a mess under the terms and conditions established by the mess constitution.




**Lounge**

**6** 

- **(1)** The Commissioner may establish lounges.

**Lounge committee**

- **(2)** The Commanding Officer for the division in which a lounge is located must establish a lounge committee and appoint its members.

**Committee responsibility**

- **(3)** The lounge committee is responsible for directing the operation of the lounge.




**Insurance**

**7** Liability insurance must be maintained for messes and lounges.




## Representation



**Providing representation or assistance**

**8** With the exception of a Member Representative or a Conduct Authority Representative as defined in section 29 of the [Commissioner’s Standing Orders (Conduct)](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2014/291.md), or a staff relations representative, as referred to in subsection 56(2) of the Regulations, and subject to subsection 9(1), a person under the Commissioner’s jurisdiction may provide representation or assistance to a member under subsection 47.1(1) of the Act only if the person has been authorized to do so by the person who holds the first position of officer or its equivalent in the person’s chain of command.




**Exceptions**

**9** 

- **(1)** For the purposes of paragraph 47.1(3)(b) of the Act, a person must not represent or assist a member under subsection 47.1(1) of the Act in any of the following circumstances:
	- **(a)** the person is involved as a party, witness, participant or interested person in the grievance, in the proceeding before a board or in the alleged misconduct that led to the decision giving rise to the appeal;
	- **(b)** any representation or assistance could result in a conflict of interest;
	- **(c)** any representation or assistance could impair the efficiency, administration or good government of the Force.

**Request to provide representation or assistance**

- **(2)** A person who wants to represent or assist a member must make a request in writing to the first position of officer or its equivalent in the person’s chain of command and a decision in response to that request must be rendered in writing as soon as feasible. The person who renders the decision must cause a copy of it to be served on the person who made the request and the member.

**Disclosure**

- **(3)** A person who represents or assists a member must immediately advise the person who holds the first position of officer or its equivalent in the representative’s chain of command if one of the circumstances set out in subsection (1) exists.




## Redress



**Appeal of decision on representation or assistance**

**10** 

- **(1)** A member seeking to be represented or assisted who has been aggrieved by the decision referred to in subsection 9(2) may seek redress by means of an appeal of the written decision in accordance with the [Commissioner’s Standing Orders (Grievances and Appeals)](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2014/289.md).

**Redress for other decisions, acts or omissions**

- **(2)** A member who is aggrieved by any decision, act or omission in the process leading to the decision referred to in subsection 9(2) may seek redress by means of an appeal of the written decision in accordance with the [Commissioner’s Standing Orders (Grievances and Appeals)](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2014/289.md).

**Effect of appeal**

- **(3)** Any appeal filed under this section does not suspend the grievance, the proceeding before a board or the appeal under subsection 45.11(1) or (3) of the Act.




## Repeals


**11** [Repeals]



**12** [Repeals]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**13** These Standing Orders come into force on the day on which they are registered.


