> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/2016/32.md)

# Banff National Park of Canada Siksika Nation Castle Mountain Land and Timber Claim Settlement Agreement Rent and Fee Remission Order

**SI/2016-32**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 15 June 2016

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, considering that it is in the public interest to do so, on the recommendation of the Minister of the Environment and the Treasury Board, pursuant to subsection 23(2.1)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-2643-E_hq_16590'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-2643-E_hq_16589'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Banff National Park of Canada Siksika Nation Castle Mountain Land and Timber Claim Settlement Agreement Rent and Fee Remission Order.

<a name='fn_81000-2-2643-E_hq_16590'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 7(2)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-2643-E_hq_16589'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. F-11<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***licence of occupation*** means a licence of occupation granted under section 18 of the Regulations for lands located adjacent to the Castle Mountain Chalets site or the Storm Mountain Lodge site. (*permis d’occupation*)

***Regulations*** means the [National Parks of Canada Lease and Licence of Occupation Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/92/25.md). (*Règlement*)

***Settlement Agreement*** means the Siksika Nation Castle Mountain Land and Timber Claim Settlement Agreement between Canada and the Siksika Nation. (*entente de règlement*)

***Siksika entity*** means a corporation, limited partnership or other entity whose ownership and controlling interest is 100% controlled by, or beneficially held in trust for, the members of the Siksika Nation. (*entité siksika*)

***special lease*** means a lease granted under paragraph 3(1)(e) of the Regulations for
- **(a)** the Castle Mountain Chalets site;
- **(b)** the Storm Mountain Lodge site;
- **(c)** the Castle Mountain Campground site; or
- **(d)** the Castle Mountain Hostel site. (*bail spécial*)




## Remission



**Special leases**

**2** Remission is granted to a Siksika entity lessee of any special lease of the monies payable for rent under subsection 6(1) of the Regulations with the exception of $1.00 per year.




**Licences of occupation**

**3** Remission is granted to a Siksika entity licensee of any licence of occupation of the monies payable for the fee under section 18 of the Regulations with the exception of $1.00 per year.




## Coming into Force



**Date of execution**

<sup><a href='#fn_Ind7D02_hq_18393'>[*]</a></sup>**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which the Settlement Agreement is fully executed, but if it is made after that day, it comes into force on the day on which it is made.

<a name='fn_Ind7D02_hq_18393'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Order in force August 15, 2016.]<br />


