> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/57/176.md)

# Joyceville Institution Proclaimed a Penitentiary for Ontario

**SOR/57-176**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CORRECTIONS AND CONDITIONAL RELEASE ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1992/c.%2020.md)

----------


<p>VINCENT MASSEY<br />[L.S.]<br /></p>

CANADA

ELIZABETH THE SECOND, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories QUEEN, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith.

TO ALL TO WHOM these Presents shall come or whom the same may in anywise concern, GREETING:

A PROCLAMATION


<p>W. R. JACKETT,<br />for *Deputy Attorney General*,<br />Canada.<br /></p>

WHEREAS in and by section twenty-two of the Penitentiary Act, Chapter 206 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, it is among other things enacted that Our Governor in Council may declare from time to time by proclamation to be published in the Canada Gazette that any tract of land within Canada of which the boundaries shall be described in such proclamation is a penitentiary and is to be so held within the meaning of the said Act.

AND WHEREAS by an Order of Our Governor in Council bearing date the eleventh day of April, in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and fifty-seven, the following lands, situated in the township of Pittsburgh, in the County of Frontenac, Province of Ontario, were declared to be a penitentiary within the meaning of the Penitentiary Act, namely:

ALL AND SINGULAR that certain parcel or tract of land and premises, situate, lying and being in the Township of Pittsburgh in the County of Frontenac and being composed of lots 15, 16 and part of lot 17 in the 5th and 6th concessions, in the said Township; save and excepting thereout and therefrom a strip of land 86 feet in width comprising No. 15 Highway crossing the said lots from the west limit of lot 15 to the east limit of the west half of lot 17; and containing by admeasurement 613.21 acres be the same more or less and which said parcel or tract of land may be more particularly described as follows:

*Firstly*: Commencing at the northeast angle of lot 15 thence south 4°21′ east in the east limit of lot 15, 6756.1 feet more or less to the south limit of lot 15; thence south 79°45′ west in the said south limit of lot 15, 1279.3 feet more or less to the southwest angle thereof; thence north 4°21′ west in the west limit of lot 15, 6814.9 feet more or less to the northwest angle of the said lot 15; thence north 82°23′ east in the north limit of lot 15, 1274.6 feet more or less to the point of commencement; said parcel containing by admeasurement 194.21 acres.



*Secondly*: Lot number sixteen (16) in the Fifth Concession of the Township of Pittsburgh containing two hundred (200) acres, more or less.



*Thirdly*: The west half of lot seventeen (17) in the Fifth Concession of the Township of Pittsburgh containing one hundred (100) acres, more or less.



*Fourthly*: The southeast quarter of lot fifteen (15) in the Sixth Concession of the township of Pittsburgh containing fifty (50) acres more or less.



*Fifthly*: All of the west half of lot fifteen (15) in the Sixth Concession of the Township of Pittsburgh containing about nineteen (19) acres of land lying south of the Rideau Canal and formerly owned by one Andrew Guild.



*Sixthly*: The west fifty (50) acres of that part of lot sixteen (16) in the Sixth Concession of the Township of Pittsburgh lying south of the Rideau Canal.





The above described lands are shown outlined in red on the compiled Survey Plan, the original of which is filed in the Office of the Chief Engineer under No. J-S-1.

NOW KNOW YE that by and with the advice of Our Privy Council for Canada We do hereby proclaim and declare that from and after the date hereof the lands above described shall henceforth be a penitentiary for the Province of Ontario, known as the Joyceville Institution.

OF ALL WHICH Our Loving Subjects and all others whom these Presents may concern are hereby required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF We have caused these Our Letters to be made Patent and the Great Seal of Canada to be hereunto affixed. WITNESS: Our Right Trusty and Well-beloved Counsellor, VINCENT MASSEY, Member of Our Order of the Companions of Honour, Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada.

AT OUR GOVERNMENT HOUSE, in Our City of Ottawa, this Eleventh day of April in the year of Our Lord One thousand nine hundred and fifty-seven and in the Sixth year of Our Reign.

By Command,
<p>C. STEIN,<br />*Under Secretary of State*.<br /></p>


