> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/93/382.md)

# Order Providing for the Fixing, Imposing and Collecting of the Levies Payable by Persons in the Province of Prince Edward Island Who are Engaged in the Production or Marketing of Cattle in Interprovincial and Export Trade

**SOR/93-382**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 9 July 1993

----------

The Prince Edward Island Cattlemen’s Association Inc., pursuant to sections 3 and 4 of the [Prince Edward Island Cattle Order](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/88/292.md), made by Order in Council P.C. 1988-974 of May 19, 1988<sup><a href='#footnote1star_e'>[*]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Order providing for the fixing, imposing and collecting of the levies payable by persons in the Province of Prince Edward Island who are engaged in the production or marketing of cattle in interprovincial and export trade.

<a name='footnote1star_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/88-292, 1988 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 2668<br />

Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, July 8, 1993




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Prince Edward Island Cattle Marketing Levies Order.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order,

***Act*** means the Natural Products Marketing Act of Prince Edward Island; (*Loi*)

***auction barn*** means an establishment at which cattle are auctioned to the highest bidder; (*établissement de vente aux enchères*)

***cattle*** means finished beef cattle produced in Prince Edward Island and sold for slaughter; (*bovins*)

***commodity group*** means the Prince Edward Island Cattlemen’s Association Inc.; (*groupement de producteurs*)

***drover*** means a person who buys cattle from producers for resale to slaughterhouses, to producers or through auction barns; (*commerçant d’animaux*)

***producer*** means a person in the Province of Prince Edward Island engaged in the production or marketing of cattle; (*producteur*)

***slaughterhouse*** means any provincially or federally inspected establishment for the butchering or processing of cattle. (*abattoir*)




## Levies


**3** 

- **(1)** Every producer shall pay to the commodity group a levy of $1.50 per head on all cattle sold by the producer to a slaughterhouse.

- **(2)** Every producer shall pay to the commodity group a levy of $1.50 per head on all cattle sold by the producer through an auction barn.

- **(3)** Every drover shall pay to the commodity group a levy of $1.50 per head on all cattle sold by the drover to a slaughterhouse.

- **(4)** Every drover shall pay to the commodity group a levy of $1.50 per head on all cattle sold by the drover through an auction barn.




## Method of Payment


**4** 

- **(1)** Each slaughterhouse and auction barn shall deduct the levy referred to in section 3 from the purchase price of each head of cattle and shall remit levies collected to the commodity group within 60 days after the date on which the levies were collected.

- **(2)** When requested to do so by the commodity group, every slaughterhouse and auction barn shall forward to the commodity group a statement of levy receipts.


