> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/93/387.md)

# Regulations Respecting Zoning at Grand Manan Airport

**SOR/93-387**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AERONAUTICS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)

Date registered: 21 July 1993

----------

Whereas, pursuant to section 5.5 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), a copy of the proposed Zoning Regulations respecting Grand Manan Airport substantially in the form set out in the schedule hereto, was published in two successive issues of the Canada Gazette Part I, on November 14th and 21st, 1992, and in two successive issues of the Telegraph Journal and the *L’Acadie Nouvelle* on January 14th and 15th, 1993, and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport with respect thereto;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 5.4 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting zoning at Grand Manan Airport.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Grand Manan Airport Zoning Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** 

- **(1)** In these Regulations,

***airport*** means the Grand Manan Airport, in the County of Charlotte, Parish of Grand Manan, in the Province of New Brunswick; (*aéroport*)

***airport reference point*** means the point described in Part I of the schedule; (*point de repère de l’aéroport*)

***approach surfaces*** means the imaginary inclined planes that extend upward and outward from each end of a strip, which planes are more particularly described in Part II of the schedule; (*surfaces d’approche*)

***outer surface*** means the imaginary plane located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport, which plane is more particularly described in Part III of the schedule; (*(surface extérieure)*)

***strip*** means the rectangular portion of the landing area of the airport, including the runway, prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction, which portion is more particularly described in Part IV of the schedule; (*bande*)

***transitional surfaces*** means the imaginary inclined planes that extend upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip and its approach surfaces, which planes are more particularly described in Part V of the schedule. (*surfaces de transition*)

- **(2)** For the purposes of these Regulations, the elevation of the airport reference point is 68 m above sea level.




## Application


**3** These Regulations apply to all the land, including public road allowances, that is adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport, which land is more particularly described in Part VI of the schedule.




## General


**4** No person shall erect or construct, on any land to which these Regulations apply, any building, structure or object or any addition to any existing building, structure or object, the highest point of which will exceed in elevation at the location of that point
- **(a)** the approach surfaces;
- **(b)** the outer surface; or
- **(c)** the transitional surfaces.




## Aeronautical Facilities


**5** No owner or lessee of any land to which these Regulations apply shall permit any part of that land to be used or developed in a manner that causes interference with any signals or communications to and from any aircraft or to and from any facilities used to provide services relating to aeronautics.
> SOR/94-375, s. 2(F).





## Natural Growth


**6** Where an object of natural growth that is on any land to which these Regulations apply grows to a height that exceeds in elevation at the location of the object any of the surfaces referred to in section 4, the Minister may require that the owner or lessee of the land remove the excessive growth.




## Disposal of Waste


**7** No owner or lessee of any land to which these Regulations apply shall permit any part of that land to be used for the disposal of any waste that is edible by or attractive to birds.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Sections 2 and 3)**

**PART I** 
## Description of the Airport Reference Point

The airport reference point, shown on Grand Manan Airport Zoning Plan No. S-2503-2 dated February 28, 1990, is determined by measuring 610 m southerly along the centre line of runway 06-24 from the northerly end of runway 24 and thence measuring 45 m easterly at right angles from the said centre line.


The said airport reference point has New Brunswick Double Stereographic Projection Grid Coordinates of N 601385.13 m and E 276341.62 m.



**PART II** 
## Description of the Approach Surfaces

The approach surfaces, shown on Grand Manan Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2503-1, S-2503-2 and S-2503-3, dated February 28, 1990, are planes abutting each end of the strip associated with runway 06-24 and are described as follows:

**(a)** an inclined plane abutting the end of the strip associated with runway approach 06 having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 30 m measured horizontally rising to an imaginary horizontal line drawn at right angles to the projected centre line of the strip and distant 1 200 m measured horizontally from the end of the strip; the outer ends of the imaginary horizontal line being 165 m from the projected centre line; said imaginary horizontal line being 40 m above the elevation at the end of the strip; and



**(b)** an inclined plane abutting the end of the strip associated with runway approach 24 having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 30 m measured horizontally rising to an imaginary horizontal line drawn at right angles to the projected centre line of the strip and distant 1 350 m measured horizontally from the end of the strip; the outer ends of the imaginary horizontal line being 180 m from the projected centre line; said imaginary horizontal line being 45 m above the elevation at the end of the strip.





**PART III** 
## Description of the Outer Surface

The outer surface, shown on Grand Manan Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2503-1 to S-2503-6 inclusive, dated February 28, 1990, is an imaginary plane established at a constant elevation of 45 m above the elevation of the airport reference point, except that, where that plane is less than 9 m above the surface of the ground, the outer surface is located at 9 m above the surface of the ground.



**PART IV** 
## Description of the Strip

The strip, associated with runway 06-24, shown on Grand Manan Airport Zoning Plan No. S-2503-2, dated February 28, 1990, is 90 m in width, 45 m being on each side of the centre line of the runway, and 1 340 m in length.



**PART V** 
## Description of Each Transitional Surface

Each transitional surface, shown on Grand Manan Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2503-1, S-2503-2 and S-2503-3, dated February 28, 1990, is an inclined plane rising at a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 7 m measured horizontally at right angles to the centre line and projected centre line of the strip, extending upward and outward from the lateral limits of the strip and its approach surfaces to an intersection with the outer surface or to a plane established at an elevation of 113 m above sea level.



**PART VI** 
## Description of the Lands to Which These Regulations Apply

The outer boundary of the lands to which these Regulations apply, shown on Grand Manan Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2503-1 to S-2503-6 inclusive, dated February 28, 1990, is a semi-circle with a radius of 4 000 m centred on the airport reference point.


The semi-circle is located on the easterly side of the extension of the westerly limit of the approach surface for runway 06 to meet the said 4 000 m radius and on the easterly side of the extension of the westerly limit of the approach surface for runway 24 to meet the said 4 000 m radius.


> SOR/94-375, s. 2(F).


