> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/93/388.md)

# Regulations Respecting Zoning at Fort Norman Airport

**SOR/93-388**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AERONAUTICS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)

Date registered: 21 July 1993

----------

Whereas, pursuant to section 5.5 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), a copy of the proposed Regulations respecting zoning at Fort Norman Airport substantially in the form set out in the schedule hereto, was published in two successive issues of the Canada Gazette Part I, on November 14th and 21st, 1992, and in two successive issues of the News of the North on January 25th and February 1st, 1993, and in two successive issues of *L’Aquilon* on January 29th and February 5th, 1993, and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport with respect thereto;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 5.4 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting zoning at Fort Norman Airport.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Fort Norman Airport Zoning Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** 

- **(1)** In these Regulations,

***airport*** means the Fort Norman Airport, in the vicinity of Fort Norman, in the Northwest Territories; (*aéroport*)

***airport reference point*** means the point described in Part I of the schedule; (*point de repère de l’aéroport*)

***approach surfaces*** means the imaginary inclined planes that extend upward and outward from each end of a strip, which planes are more particularly described in Part II of the schedule; (*surfaces d’approche*)

***outer surface*** means the imaginary plane located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport, which plane is more particularly described in Part III of the schedule; (*surface extérieure*)

***strip*** means the rectangular portion of the landing area of the airport, including the runway, prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction, which portion is more particularly described in Part IV of the schedule; (*bande*)

***transitional surfaces*** means the imaginary inclined planes that extend upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip and its approach surfaces, which planes are more particularly described in Part V of the schedule. (*surfaces de transition*)

- **(2)** For the purposes of these Regulations, the elevation of the airport reference point is 98.3 m above sea level.




## Application


**3** These Regulations apply to all land, including public road allowances, that is adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport, which land is more particularly described in Part VI of the schedule.




## General


**4** No person shall erect or construct on any land to which these Regulations apply, any building, structure or object or any addition to any existing building, structure or object, the highest point of which will exceed in elevation at the location of that point
- **(a)** the approach surfaces;
- **(b)** the outer surface; or
- **(c)** the transitional surfaces.




## Natural Growth


**5** Where an object of natural growth that is on any land to which these Regulations apply grows to a height that exceeds in elevation at the location of the object any of the surfaces referred to in section 4, the Minister may require that the owner or lessee of the land remove the excessive growth.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Sections 2 and 3)**

**PART I** 
## Description of the Airport Reference Point

The airport reference point, shown on Fort Norman Airport Zoning Plan No. E.2969 dated January 30, 1992, is a point located on the centre line of runway 05-23 distant 457 m from the threshold of runway 23.



**PART II** 
## Description of the Approach Surfaces

The approach surfaces, shown on Fort Norman Airport Zoning Plan No. E.2969, dated January 30, 1992, are planes abutting each end of the strip associated with runway 05-23, and are described as follows:

**(a)** an inclined plane abutting the end of the strip associated with runway approach 05 having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 25 m measured horizontally rising to an imaginary horizontal line drawn at right angles to the projected centre line of the strip and distant 2 500 m measured horizontally from the end of the strip; the outer ends of the imaginary horizontal line being 280 m from the projected centre line; said imaginary horizontal line being 100 m above the elevation at the end of the strip; and



**(b)** an inclined plane abutting the end of the strip associated with runway approach 23 having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 25 m measured horizontally rising to an imaginary horizontal line drawn at right angles to the projected centre line of the strip and distant 2 500 m measured horizontally from the end of the strip; the outer ends of the imaginary horizontal line being 280 m from the projected centre line; said imaginary horizontal line being 100 m above the elevation at the end of the strip.





**PART III** 
## Description of the Outer Surface

The outer surface, shown on Fort Norman Airport Zoning Plan No. E.2969 dated January 30, 1992, is an imaginary plane established at a constant elevation of 45 m above the elevation of the airport reference point, except that, where that plane is less than 9 m above the surface of the ground, the outer surface is located at 9 m above the surface of the ground.



**PART IV** 
## Description of the Strip

The strip associated with runway 05-23, shown on Fort Norman Airport Zoning Plan No. E.2969 dated January 30, 1992, is 60 m in width, 30 m being on each side of the centre line of the runway, and 1 034 m in length.



**PART V** 
## Description of the Transitional Surfaces

Each transitional surface, shown on Fort Norman Airport Zoning Plan No. E.2969, dated January 30, 1992, is an inclined plane rising at a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 5 m measured horizontally at right angles to the centre line and projected centre line of the strip, extending upward and outward from the lateral limits of the strip and its approach surfaces to an intersection with the outer surface.



**PART VI** 
## Description of the Land to Which These Regulations Apply

The outer boundary of the land to which these Regulations apply, shown on Fort Norman Airport Zoning Plan No. E.2969, dated January 30, 1992, is a circle with a radius of 4 000 m centred on the airport reference point.


> SOR/94-375, s. 2(F).


