> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/93/522.md)

# Regulations Respecting Zoning at St. Leonard Airport

**SOR/93-522**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AERONAUTICS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)

Date registered: 2 December 1993

----------

Whereas, pursuant to section 5.5 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), a copy of the proposed Regulations respecting zoning at St. Leonard Airport, substantially in the form set out in the schedule hereto, was published in two successive issues of the Canada Gazette Part I, on March 6th and 13th, 1993, and in two successive issues of the Telegraph Journal on March 26th and 27th, 1993, and in two successive issues of *Le Madawaska* on March 31st and April 7th, 1993, and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport with respect thereto;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 5.4 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting zoning at St. Leonard Airport.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the St. Leonard Airport Zoning Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** 

- **(1)** In these Regulations,

***airport*** means the St. Leonard Airport, in the County of Madawaska, in the Province of New Brunswick; (*aéroport*)

***airport reference point*** means the point described in Part I of the schedule; (*point de repère de l’aéroport*)

***approach surfaces*** means the imaginary inclined planes that extend upward and outward from each end of a strip, which planes are more particularly described in Part II of the schedule; (*surfaces d’approche*)

***outer surface*** means the imaginary plane located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport, which plane is more particularly described in Part III of the schedule; (*surface extérieure*)

***strip*** means the rectangular portion of the landing area of the airport, including the runway, prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction, which portion is more particularly described in Part IV of the schedule; (*bande*)

***transitional surfaces*** means the imaginary inclined planes that extend upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip and its approach surfaces, which planes are more particularly described in Part V of the schedule. (*surfaces de transition*)

- **(2)** For the purposes of these Regulations, the elevation of the airport reference point is 234 m above sea level.




## Application


**3** These Regulations apply to all land, including public road allowances, that is adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport, which land is more particularly described as follows:
- **(a)** the land within the outer limit described in Part VI of the schedule; and
- **(b)** the land directly under that portion of the approach surfaces that extends beyond the outer limit.




## General


**4** No person shall erect or construct, on any land to which these Regulations apply, any building, structure or object or any addition to any existing building, structure or object, the highest point of which will exceed in elevation at the location of that point
- **(a)** the approach surfaces;
- **(b)** the outer surface; or
- **(c)** the transitional surfaces.




## Aeronautical Facilities


**5** No owner or lessee of any land to which these Regulations apply shall permit any part of that land to be used or developed in a manner that causes interference with any signals or communications to and from any aircraft or to and from any facilities used to provide services relating to aeronautics.




## Natural Growth


**6** Where an object of natural growth that is on any land to which these Regulations apply grows to a height that exceeds in elevation at the location of the object any of the surfaces referred to in section 4, the Minister may require that the owner or lessee of the land remove the excessive growth.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Sections 2 and 3)**

**PART I** 
## Description of Airport Reference Point

The airport reference point, shown on St. Leonard Airport Zoning Plan No. S-2201-9, dated January 23, 1990, is determined by measuring 915 m along the centre line of runway 18-36 from the northerly end of runway 18;


Thence measuring easterly, at right angles to the centre line of runway 18-36, 150 m to the airport reference point having New Brunswick Stereographic Double Projection Grid Coordinates of North 873 700.71 m and East 198 925.79 m.



**PART II** 
## Description of the Approach Surfaces

The approach surfaces, shown on St. Leonard Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2201-4 to S-2201-19 inclusive and S-2201-21 to S-2201-25 inclusive, dated January 23, 1990, are planes abutting each end of the strip associated with runway 18-36 and are described as follows:

**(a)** an inclined plane abutting the end of the strip associated with the approach to runway 18 having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 50 m measured horizontally rising to an imaginary horizontal line drawn at right angles to the projected centre line of the strip and distant 15 000 m measured horizontally from the end of the strip; the outer ends of the imaginary horizontal line being 2 400 m from the projected centre line; said imaginary horizontal line being 300 m above the elevation at the end of the strip; and



**(b)** an inclined plane abutting the end of the strip associated with the approach to runway 36 having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 50 m measured horizontally rising to an imaginary horizontal line drawn at right angles to the projected centre line of the strip and distant 15 000 m measured horizontally from the end of the strip; the outer ends of the imaginary horizontal line being 2 400 m from the projected centre line; said imaginary horizontal line being 300 m above the elevation at the end of the strip, saving and excepting thereout any portion of the said surface which may lie within the boundaries of the United States of America.





**PART III** 
## Description of the Outer Surface

The outer surface, shown on St. Leonard Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2201-1 to S-2201-3 inclusive, S-2201-8 to S-2201-10 inclusive and S-2201-19 to S-2201-21 inclusive, dated January 23, 1990, is an imaginary plane established at a constant elevation of 45 m above the elevation of the airport reference point, except that, where that plane is less than 9 m above the surface of the ground, the outer surface is located at 9 m above the surface of the ground.



**PART IV** 
## Description of the Strip

The strip associated with runway 18-36, shown on St. Leonard Airport Zoning Plan No. S-2201-9, dated January 23, 1990, is 300 m in width, 150 m being on each side of the centre line of the runway, and 1 950 m in length.



**PART V** 
## Description of the Transitional Surfaces

Each transitional surface, shown on St. Leonard Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2201-8 to S-2201-10 inclusive, dated January 23, 1990, is an inclined plane rising at a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 7 m measured horizontally at right angles to the centre line and projected centre line of the strip, extending upward and outward from the lateral limits of the strip and its approach surfaces to an intersection with the outer surface.



**PART VI** 
## Description of the Outer Limit

The outer limit, shown on St. Leonard Airport Zoning Plan Nos. S-2201-2, S-2201-3, S-2201-8 to S-2201-10 inclusive, S-2201-19 to S-2201-21 inclusive, dated January 23, 1990, is a circle with a radius of 4 000 m centred on the airport reference point.



