> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/93/65.md)

# Order Exempting the Proposed Acquisition of an Increased Interest in Greyhound Lines of Canada Ltd. from the Application of Part VII of the National Transportation Act, 1987

**SOR/93-65**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA TRANSPORTATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 4 February 1993

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport and the National Transportation Agency, pursuant to subsection 253(6) of the National Transportation Act, 1987<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-93-65_e_hq_6246'>[*]</a></sup>, is pleased hereby to approve the annexed Order exempting the proposed acquisition of an increased interest in Greyhound Lines of Canada Ltd. from the application of Part VII of the National Transportation Act, 1987, made by the National Transportation Agency on December 29, 1992.

<a name='fn_SOR-93-65_e_hq_6246'><sup>*</sup></a>: R.S., c. 28 (3rd Supp.)<br />




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Proposed Acquisition of Increased Interest in Greyhound Lines of Canada Ltd. Exemption Order.




## Exemption


**2** The proposed acquisition of an increased interest wherein the minority public shareholders of Greyhound Lines of Canada Ltd. may increase the percentage of their voting shares in Greyhound Lines of Canada Ltd. from 31 per cent to 46 per cent is hereby exempted from the application of Part VII of the National Transportation Act, 1987.


