> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2015/5.md)

# Canada – Newfoundland and Labrador Offshore Area Diving Operations Safety Transitional Regulations

**SOR/2015-5**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA–NEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR ATLANTIC ACCORD IMPLEMENTATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1987/c.%203.md)

- OFFSHORE HEALTH AND SAFETY ACT

Date registered: 5 January 2015

----------



## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***acceptable standard*** means an applicable standard that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer. (*norme acceptable*)

***accident*** means a fortuitous event that results in the death of or injury to any person involved in a diving operation. (*accident*)

***Act*** means the Canada-Newfoundland Atlantic Accord Implementation Act. (*Loi*)

***ADS*** means an atmospheric diving system capable of withstanding external pressures greater than atmospheric pressure and in which the internal pressure remains at atmospheric pressure and includes a one-person submarine and the one-atmosphere compartment of a diving submersible. (*système ADS*)

***ADS dive*** means a dive in which an ADS is used. (*plongée avec système ADS*)

***ADS diving operation*** means a diving operation in which an ADS dive is made. (*opérations de plongée avec système ADS*)

***ADS supervisor*** means a supervisor of a diving operation involving a pilot. (*directeur de plongée avec système ADS*)

***ambient pressure*** means the pressure at any given depth. (*pression ambiante*)

***appropriate breathing mixture*** means, in relation to a diving operation, a breathing mixture that is suitable, in terms of composition, temperature and pressure, for the diving plant and equipment used in the diving operation, for the work to be undertaken and for the conditions under which and the depth at which the diving operation is to be conducted. (*mélange respiratoire approprié*)

***attendant*** means a person who has been trained in diving procedures and who is acting under the direction of a supervisor. (*adjoint*)

***bottom time*** means the period beginning when a person begins pressurization or descent for a dive and ending when the person begins decompression or ascent. (*durée du séjour au fond*)

***breathing mixture*** means a mixture of gases used for human respiration and includes pure oxygen and any therapeutic mixture. (*mélange respiratoire*)

***category I dive*** means a dive to a depth of less than 50 m using surface-oriented diving techniques and a breathing mixture of air, but no other breathing mixture except in cases of decompression, treatment or emergency, and includes a dive in which a diving bell or diving submersible is used for an observation dive, but does not include a lock-out dive. (*plongée de catégorie I*)

***category I diving operation*** means a diving operation in which a category I dive is made. (*opérations de plongée de catégorie I*)

***category II dive*** means a lock-out dive to a depth of less than 50 m using a breathing mixture of air, or to a depth of 50 m or more using a breathing mixture of mixed gas other than air, but does not include a saturation dive. (*plongée de catégorie II*)

***category II diving operation*** means a diving operation in which a category II dive is made. (*opérations de plongée de catégorie II*)

***category III dive*** means a saturation dive and any dive other than an ADS dive, a category I dive or a category II dive. (*plongée de catégorie III*)

***category III diving operation*** means a diving operation in which a category III dive is made. (*opérations de plongée de catégorie III*)

***certificate of fitness*** means a certificate, in the form fixed by the Board, issued by a certifying authority in accordance with section 4 of the [Newfoundland Offshore Certificate of Fitness Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/95/100.md). (*certificat de conformité*)

***certifying authority*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Newfoundland Offshore Certificate of Fitness Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/95/100.md). (*autorité*)

***compression chamber*** means a pressure vessel that is suitable for human occupancy at internal pressures greater than atmospheric pressure. (*caisson de compression ou compartiment de compression*)

***contingency plan*** means a contingency plan referred to in paragraph 3(4)(g). (*plan d’urgence*)

***craft*** means any vessel, vehicle, hovercraft, semi-submersible, submarine or diving submersible and includes a self-propelled, tethered, towed or bottom-contact apparatus, but does not include an installation. (*véhicule*)

***decompression*** means the gradual reduction of the pressures of the inert components of a breathing mixture in the body. (*décompression*)

***decompression sickness*** means a condition caused by the reduction or other changes of pressure on or in the body. (*maladie de la décompression*)

***decompression sickness type I*** means a decompression sickness that is characterized by one or both of the following symptoms:
- **(a)** pain that is located at or near the joints of the limbs but is not felt in other parts of the body; and
- **(b)** cutaneous manifestations including a rash and cutaneous pruritus (intense itching). (*maladie de la décompression de type I*)

***decompression sickness type II*** means a decompression sickness that is characterized by one or more of the following symptoms:
- **(a)** neurological manifestations related to the central nervous system;
- **(b)** interference with the respiratory or cardiovascular system;
- **(c)** otologic disorders; and
- **(d)** any symptoms not referred to in the definition “decompression sickness type I”. (*maladie de la décompression de type II*)

***decompression table*** means a table or set of tables that
- **(a)** shows a schedule of rates for safe descent and ascent and the appropriate breathing mixture to be used by a diver during a dive; and
- **(b)** has been approved in accordance with section 4. (*table de décompression*)

***diver***means a person who meets the requirements of section 52, 54 or 56, who is involved in a diving operation that is part of a diving program and who may be subject to pressures greater than atmospheric pressure. (*plongeur*)

***dive site*** means the place on a craft or installation from which a diving operation is conducted and from which a diver or pilot involved in the diving operation enters the water. (*lieu de plongée*)

***dive time*** means the period beginning when a person begins pressurization or descent for a dive and ending when the person completes decompression or ascent. (*durée de la plongée*)

***diving bell*** means a compression chamber that is intended to be submerged and that is designed to transport a person at atmospheric pressure or divers at pressures greater than atmospheric pressure from the surface to an underwater work site and back and includes the compression chamber of a diving submersible. (*tourelle de plongée*)

***diving contractor*** means a person who employs a diver for a diving operation or who holds a contract to supply diving services for a diving operation, but does not include a self-employed diver. (*entrepreneur en plongée*)

***diving crew*** means the persons who are designated by a diving contractor to be involved in a diving operation conducted by the diving contractor and who are under the supervision of a supervisor. (*équipe de plongée*)

***diving doctor*** means a medical doctor who is licensed and registered to practise in a province, who has completed a diving medical course acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who has been accepted in writing by the Chief Safety Officer to certify divers for the purposes of paragraph 52(b), but who has not been accepted by the Chief Safety Officer to provide medical assistance under pressures greater than atmospheric pressure. (*médecin de plongée*)

***diving operation*** means any work or activity that is associated with a dive and that takes place during the total dive time and includes
- **(a)** those involving a diver or pilot;
- **(b)** those of a person assisting a diver or pilot involved in the dive; and
- **(c)** any use of an ADS in the dive. (*opérations de plongée*)

***diving plant and equipment*** means the plant and equipment that are used in, or in connection with, a diving operation and includes the plant and equipment that are essential to a diver or pilot. (*matériel de plongée*)

***diving program*** means any work or activity related to the exploration or drilling for, or the production, conservation, processing or transportation of, petroleum that involves a diving operation. (*programme de plongée ou programme*)

***diving safety specialist*** means a person who meets the criteria set out in subsection 25(1). (*spécialiste de la sécurité en plongée*)

***diving station*** means the place from which a diving operation is controlled. (*poste de commande de plongée*)

***diving submersible*** means a self-propelled submarine that has at least
- **(a)** one one-atmosphere compartment from which the diving submersible is piloted and from which a dive can be supervised; and
- **(b)** one compression chamber from which a dive can be conducted. (*sous-marin crache-plongeurs*)

***diving supervisor*** means a supervisor of a diving operation involving a diver. (*directeur de plongée*)

***dressed-in*** means fully equipped to dive and ready to enter the water, with the diver’s personal diving equipment tested and at hand, whether or not helmet, face plate or face mask is in place. (*équipé*)

***emergency*** means an exceptional situation resulting from an accident or incident. (*urgence*)

***environmental conditions*** means conditions that may affect a diving operation and includes
- **(a)** weather and sea conditions;
- **(b)** speed of currents and tides;
- **(c)** shipping activities;
- **(d)** air and water temperatures;
- **(e)** icing conditions; and
- **(f)** debris on the sea surface or sea bed. (*conditions ambiantes*)

***hyperbaric first-aid technician*** means a person who has successfully completed an advanced hyperbaric first-aid course acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer. (*secouriste hyperbare*)

***incident*** means a fortuitous event that compromises or is likely to compromise the safety of, or endangers or is likely to endanger the health, well-being or life of, a person involved in a diving operation. (*incident*)

***installation*** means any fixed offshore structure used in connection with the exploration or drilling for, or the production, conservation, processing or transportation of, petroleum or any other marine installation or structure. (*installation*)

***lifeline*** means a safety line attached to a diver that is suitable for recovering and lifting the diver and the diver’s personal diving equipment from the water. (*ligne de vie*)

***life-support system*** means a system composed of the breathing mixture supply systems, decompression and recompression equipment, environmental control systems and equipment and supplies that may be required to provide safe accommodation for a person in the water, in a compression chamber, in a diving bell, in a diving submersible or in an ADS under all pressures and conditions that a person may be exposed to during a diving operation. (*système de survie*)

***life-support technician*** means a person who has successfully completed a life-support technician’s course acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who has satisfied the Chief Safety Officer that the person has attained a level of competence in all aspects of all types of diving techniques, including emergency procedures, hyperbaric first aid and operation of life-support systems. (*technicien des systèmes de survie*)

***lock-out dive*** means a dive from a diving bell or a diving submersible. (*plongée à partir d’un sas*)

***maximum working load*** means the total weight of a load, weighed out of water, likely to be handled under normal operating conditions in a diving operation, including the weight of the umbilical. (*charge de service maximale*)

***maximum working pressure*** means the maximum pressure to which a compression chamber can safely be exposed under normal operating conditions in a diving operation and, if a compression chamber is interconnected with one or more other compression chambers, means, in respect of each of the interconnected chambers, the maximum pressure to which the interconnected chamber with the lowest maximum working pressure can safely be exposed under normal operating conditions. (*pression de service maximale*)

***medical lock*** means a lock through which objects may be passed into or out of a compression chamber while a person inside the compression chamber remains under pressure. (*sas à médicaments*)

***operator*** means a person who has been authorized, under paragraph 138(1)(b) of the Act, to carry on a work or activity that is a diving program or that includes a diving program, or the operator referred to in Part III.1 of the Act. (*exploitant*)

***personal diving equipment*** means the diving equipment carried by a diver on the diver’s person during a dive and includes a diving suit, breathing apparatus, bailout gas bottle and communications equipment. (*équipement personnel de plongée*)

***pilot*** means a person who controls the movement of an ADS from within the ADS and who performs from within the ADS any other tasks necessary for the operation of the ADS. (*pilote*)

***pressure vessel*** means a closed container capable of withstanding internal or external pressures, or both, greater than one atmosphere. (*appareil sous pression*)

***procedures manual*** means the procedures manual referred to in paragraph 3(4)(a). (*manuel des méthodes*)

***recognized body*** means an organization, a classification society, a certifying authority, a group of persons or an individual that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer as having the expertise and experience to set standards for, or to inspect and certify, diving plant and equipment or their parts. (*autorité reconnue*)

***saturation dive*** means a dive in which saturation diving techniques are used. (*plongée à saturation*)

***saturation diving technique*** means a diving procedure that essentially equilibrates the total pressure of inert gases in the body of a diver with the ambient pressure and allows extended periods of bottom time without additional decompression time required. (*technique de la plongée à saturation*)

***SCUBA*** means a self-contained open-circuit underwater breathing apparatus. (*appareil de plongée autonome*)

***skip*** means a stage, cage, basket or wet bell in which a diver may be lowered to or raised from an underwater work site. (*skip*)

***specialized diving doctor*** means a diving doctor who has completed an advanced diving medical course acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who has been accepted in writing by the Chief Safety Officer to provide medical assistance under pressures greater than atmospheric pressure. (*médecin de plongée spécialisé*)

***stand-by diver*** means a diver who is dressed-in and trained to operate at the same depths and in the same circumstances as the diver for whom the stand-by diver is standing by, who is at the same dive site as the other diver and who is available without delay to assist the other diver. (*plongeur de secours*)

***supervisor*** means a person appointed in writing by a diving contractor, under subsection 8(3), as a diving supervisor or an ADS supervisor to supervise a diving operation. (*directeur*)

***surface compression chamber*** means a compression chamber that is not intended to be submerged. (*caisson de compression de surface*)

***surface-oriented diving technique*** means a diving procedure in which the use of a diving bell or diving submersible is not required. (*technique de la plongée avec soutien en surface*)

***total dive time*** means the period beginning when a person begins to prepare for a dive and ending when the person leaves the water, is not subject to pressures greater than atmospheric pressure and, in accordance with the relevant schedule in the appropriate decompression table, has normal inert gas pressure in their body. (*durée totale de la plongée*)

***umbilical*** means a composite hose or cable or number of separate hoses or cables capable of supplying a breathing mixture, power, heat, communications and other services, as required, for a diving operation. (*ombilical*)




## Application


**2** These Regulations apply to any diving operation conducted in the Newfoundland offshore area in connection with the exploration or drilling for, or the production, conservation, processing or transportation of, petroleum.




**PART 1** 
## Proposed Diving Programs



### Authorization


**3** 

- **(1)** A person may apply for an authorization under paragraph 138(1)(b) of the Act in respect of a proposed diving program by forwarding to the Chief Safety Officer an application, completed in triplicate, in the form fixed by the Board.

- **(2)** The authorization is, in addition to any other requirements of these Regulations, subject to the requirements that the operator and the diving contractor, if any, of the diving program must
	- **(a)** maintain the level of performance of the diving crew, diving plant and equipment and any craft or installation used in the diving program at or above the level of performance indicated in the application referred to in subsection (1) and accepted by the Chief Safety Officer, as the level of performance at which the diving program will be carried on;
	- **(b)** if the operator or the diving contractor, as the case may be, proposes to replace a supervisor or appoint an additional supervisor, provide the Chief Safety Officer with evidence that any replacement or additional supervisor meets the criteria set out in section 26, 28, 30 or 32 to supervise the category of dive the supervisor will be supervising; and
	- **(c)** if, in any area in which the diving program is being carried on, the environmental conditions, during any period, become more severe than the environmental conditions indicated in the application as being the most severe environmental conditions under which the diving program would be carried on, cease to carry on the diving program in that area during that period.

- **(3)** No authorization is to be given in respect of a proposed diving program unless the applicant provides the Chief Safety Officer with evidence
	- **(a)** that a diving safety specialist was consulted on all safety aspects of the diving program;
	- **(b)** that a diving safety specialist will be available on a 24-hour-a-day basis to advise any person involved in the diving program, including any person making decisions affecting the safety of divers involved in the diving program, on all safety aspects of the diving program;
	- **(c)** that any supervisor who will be involved in the diving program meets the criteria set out in section 26, 28, 30 or 32 to supervise the category of dive the supervisor will be supervising;
	- **(d)** that the services of a specialized diving doctor who is familiar with the diving procedures to be used in the diving operation that will form part of the diving program and who is within a travelling distance of the diving operation that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer will be available on a 24-hour-a-day basis to any person involved in the diving program;
	- **(e)** of any certificates issued by the manufacturer or a recognized body in respect of the diving plant and equipment to be used in the diving program; and
	- **(f)** if a diving program is to be conducted by a diving contractor who is not also the operator of the diving program, that the diving contractor is able to meet any liability for loss, damage, costs or expenses that may be incurred by the diving contractor as a result of the diving program.

- **(4)** No authorization is to be issued in respect of a proposed diving program unless approval has been granted by the Chief Safety Officer for the following:
	- **(a)** the procedures manual that contains the procedures to be followed in the diving program, including the procedures referred to in Schedule 1;
	- **(b)** schematic drawings showing the general arrangement of any diving plant and equipment to be used in the diving program and their location on board the craft or installation on which or from which they will be used;
	- **(c)** if a craft is to be used in the diving program and is to be maintained in position by a method referred to in subparagraph 11(2)(q)(iii), the method by which the craft is to be maintained in position;
	- **(d)** any use in the diving program of a craft in the dynamically positioned mode and the dynamically positioned diving operational capacity graph in respect of the craft;
	- **(e)** if a diving submersible is to be used in the diving program and is to be secured in a manner referred to in subparagraph 17(b)(iii), the manner in which the diving submersible is to be secured;
	- **(f)** any experimental equipment or technique to be used in the diving program; and
	- **(g)** the contingency plan to be followed in the diving program, including the emergency procedures referred to in Schedule 2 and the particulars of any additional evacuation, rescue and treatment facilities and devices to be used in the diving program.

- **(5)** No authorization is to be issued in respect of a proposed diving program unless a valid certificate of fitness is in force in respect of the diving plant and equipment to be used in the diving program and the certificate of fitness remaining valid and in force.



**4** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer is authorized to grant, in accordance with subsection (2), any approval prescribed in these Regulations and to make that approval subject to, in addition to the requirements prescribed in these Regulations, any terms and conditions that the Chief Safety Officer determines.

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer must provide a person with evidence of any approval granted to the person under subsection (1).

- **(3)** If the terms and conditions subject to ehich an approval was granted are not complied with, the Chief Safety Officer is authorized to suspend or revoke the approval, in which case the the Chief Safety Officer must give the person an opportunity to show cause why the approval should not have been suspended or revoked.




**PART 2** 
## Operators



### Duties


**5** 

- **(1)** The operator of a diving program must
	- **(a)** engage the services of a diving safety specialist who will be available as described in paragraph 3(3)(b) for the purpose described in that paragraph;
	- **(b)** make available a suitable place from which any diving operation that is part of the diving program may be conducted;
	- **(c)** to the extent practicable, give advance notice of any diving operation that is part of the diving program to the person in charge of any craft or installation in the vicinity of the operation;
	- **(d)** make available adequate forecasts of environmental conditions to the supervisor on duty at a diving operation
		- **(i)** before the diving operation begins, and
		- **(ii)** during the diving operation, at intervals of not more than 24 hours and at any time when the supervisor requests those forecasts;
	- **(e)** inform the supervisor on duty at a diving operation of any matter within the operator’s control that may affect the safety of the diving operation;
	- **(f)** provide an adequate and effective system of communication between the supervisor who is on duty and any person, other than the divers and pilots, involved in, or in a position to assist in, a diving operation including a winch or crane operator and a person on the bridge, on the rig floor or in the main control room of a craft or installation used in the diving operation;
	- **(g)** while a diving operation that is part of the diving program is in progress, prominently display notices to that effect
		- **(i)** in the case of any craft or installation used in the diving operation, on the bridge and in the engine room, and
		- **(ii)** in the case of any diving plant and equipment used in the diving operation, on any controls the operation of which might endanger a diver or pilot and on any controls for impressed current cathodic protection;
	- **(h)** display in the control room of a craft that will be operated in the dynamically positioned mode in a diving operation that is part of the diving program a copy of the dynamically positioned diving operational capacity graph in respect of the craft;
	- **(i)** in the event that a member of a diving crew involved in the diving program meets with an accident, notify the Chief Safety Officer or a safety officer of the accident by the most rapid and practical means and submit to the Chief Safety Officer or the safety officer a report of that accident in the form set out in Schedule 3;
	- **(j)** in the event of a serious illness affecting a member of a diving crew involved in the diving program or an incident in connection with the diving program, notify the Chief Safety Officer or a safety officer of the illness or incident as soon as possible, investigate the cause of the illness or incident and submit to the Chief Safety Officer or the safety officer a report of the illness or incident, including, in the case of an incident, a report in the form set out in Schedule 3;
	- **(k)** submit to the Chief Safety Officer a monthly report of all injuries to any member of a diving crew involved in a diving operation that is part of the diving program; and
	- **(l)** during the course of any diving operation that is part of the diving program, prominently display at the diving station for the diving operation a copy of the authorization given under paragraph 138(1)(b) of the Act for that diving program and evidence of any approval granted in relation to that authorization under section 4.

- **(2)** The operator of a diving program must not
	- **(a)** conduct any diving operation that is part of the diving program in the vicinity of any other activity that might pose a danger to any person involved in the diving operation;
	- **(b)** use, in a diving operation, any craft that has insufficient power or stability for the safe conduct of the diving operation; and
	- **(c)** prevent any diving contractor involved in the diving program from complying with any of the provisions of these Regulations.




### Changes in Equipment and Procedures


**6** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the operator of a diving program must
	- **(a)** immediately repair, replace or alter or arrange for the repair, replacement or alteration of any diving plant and equipment that are being used in the diving program and that are defective or become inadequate or unsafe;
	- **(b)** alter any procedure set out in the procedures manual for the diving program that becomes unsafe, inadequate or deficient; and
	- **(c)** when necessary, initiate a new procedure in respect of the diving program.

- **(2)** The operator of a diving program must obtain the approval of the Chief Safety Officer before doing any of the following under subsection (1) :
	- **(a)** repair, replace or alter or arrange for the repair, replacement or alteration of any diving plant and equipment referred to in paragraph (1)(a), other than a routine repair, replacement or alteration carried out by a competent person;
	- **(b)** alter a procedure set out in the procedures manual for the diving program; or
	- **(c)** initiate a new procedure in respect of the diving program.




### Authorization


**7** 

- **(1)** An operator may apply for an authorization under subsection 151(1) of the Act to use equipment, methods, measures or standards that do not comply with these Regulations.

- **(2)** An application referred to in subsection (1) must set out the manner in which the equipment, methods, measures or standards that are the subject of the application provide a level of safety and protection of the environment and conservation at least equivalent to that which would be provided by compliance with these Regulations.




**PART 3** 
## Diving Contractors



### Duties


**8** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), a diving contractor must not conduct a diving operation unless the diving contractor has engaged the services of a diving safety specialist, other than the diving safety specialist engaged by the operator under paragraph 5(1)(a), who will be available as described in paragraph 3(3)(b) for the purpose described in that paragraph.

- **(2)** If the operator referred to in subsection 5(1) and the diving contractor referred to in subsection (1) are the same person, the diving safety specialist engaged under subsection (1) may be the same person as the diving safety specialist engaged under paragraph 5(1)(a).

- **(3)** A diving contractor must not conduct a diving operation that includes
	- **(a)** a category I dive unless the diving contractor has appointed in writing a person who meets the criteria set out in section 26, 28 or 30 to supervise the diving operation and such a supervisor is present at all times during the diving operation;
	- **(b)** a category II dive unless the diving contractor has appointed in writing a person who meets the criteria set out in section 28 or 30 to supervise the diving operation and such a supervisor is present at all times during the diving operation;
	- **(c)** a category III dive unless the diving contractor has appointed in writing a person who meets the criteria set out in section 30 to supervise the diving operation and such a supervisor is present at all times during the diving operation; and
	- **(d)** the use of an ADS unless the diving contractor has appointed in writing a person who meets the criteria set out in section 32 to supervise the diving operation and such a supervisor is present at all times during the diving operation.

- **(4)** A diving contractor must not, in a diving operation conducted by the diving contractor, employ a person
	- **(a)** to make a category I dive unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 52, 54 or 56;
	- **(b)** to make a category II dive unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 54 or 56;
	- **(c)** to make a category III dive unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 56; or
	- **(d)** to pilot an ADS unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 63.

- **(5)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation that is part of a diving program must
	- **(a)** ensure that every diving supervisor employed by the diving contractor in the diving program on a full-time basis has the opportunity to supervise each year a minimum of 12 dives appropriate to the category of dive for which the supervisor is certified;
	- **(b)** ensure that every ADS supervisor employed by the diving contractor in the diving program on a full-time basis has the opportunity to supervise each year a minimum of six ADS dives;
	- **(c)** ensure that every diver employed by the diving contractor in the diving program on a full-time basis has the opportunity to make each year a minimum of 24 dives, totalling a minimum of 20 hours of bottom time, appropriate to the category of dive for which the diver is certified;
	- **(d)** ensure that every pilot employed by the diving contractor in the diving program on a full-time basis has the opportunity to make each year at least four ADS dives totalling a minimum of 16 hours of bottom time;
	- **(e)** ensure that, except in the case of an emergency, each member of a diving crew involved in the diving operation, in every 24-hour period,
		- **(i)** has a rest period of not less than eight consecutive hours, and
		- **(ii)** is required to work not more than 12 hours;
	- **(f)** follow the procedures set out in the procedures manual for the diving program and any altered or newly initiated procedures referred to in section 6 for the diving program;
	- **(g)** maintain, at the craft or installation from which the diving operation is conducted, two copies of these Regulations and a copy of the applicable procedures manual and make them available to any person involved or to be involved in the diving operation and, on request, to the Chief Safety Officer or a safety officer;
	- **(h)** provide or arrange for the provision of any diving plant and equipment necessary for the safe conduct of the diving operation, including
		- **(i)** adequate fire-fighting equipment, and
		- **(ii)** a two-compartment compression chamber that
			- **(A)** has been approved for the diving program, in accordance with section 4, for use at a pressure that is not less than six atmospheres absolute or, where the maximum working pressure that may be encountered during any dive that is part of the diving operation is greater than six atmospheres absolute, for use at the maximum pressure plus one atmosphere,
			- **(B)** is suitable for the diving operation, and
			- **(C)** is located in a readily accessible place on board the craft or installation from which the diving operation is conducted or, if the diving operation is conducted at a depth of 10 m or less and the supervisor approves, within one hour’s travelling time from the dive site;
	- **(i)** use only diving plant and equipment that are of sound construction, adequate strength, free from patent defects and in good working order;
	- **(j)** provide for the protection of the diving plant and equipment used in the diving operation from malfunction in the environmental conditions under which the diving plant and equipment are to be used, including conditions of low or high temperatures;
	- **(k)** permit only the repair, replacement and alteration of diving plant and equipment used in the diving operation that have been approved under subsection 6(2) and ensure that routine repair, replacement or alteration is carried out by a competent person;
	- **(l)** provide adequate illumination of the dive site and the underwater work site of the diving operation
		- **(i)** during any period of darkness or low visibility, and
		- **(ii)** when the supervisor requests the illumination and when the nature of the diving operation so permits;
	- **(m)** provide a diving operations logbook that is permanently bound and has numbered pages;
	- **(n)** retain any diving operations logbook referred to in paragraph (m) that is delivered to the diving contractor by a supervisor under subsection 49(4), and any records or copies delivered to the diving contractor by a supervisor under subsection 51(3), for a period of not less than two years after the day on which the last entry is made in it; and
	- **(o)** produce, on request, any logbooks, records or copies referred to in paragraph (n) for inspection by the Chief Safety Officer or a safety officer.

- **(6)** If continuance of a diving operation would compromise or is likely to compromise the health, well-being or safety of any person involved in the diving operation, the diving contractor who conducts the diving operation must immediately interrupt or discontinue the diving operation.



**9** 

- **(1)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not permit any person involved in the diving operation to be exposed to a pressure greater than atmospheric pressure in a compression chamber used in connection with the diving operation unless
	- **(a)** not more than 12 months before the day of the exposure, a diving doctor has certified that the person is fit to be exposed to the pressure; and
	- **(b)** copies of the certificate referred to in paragraph (a) are in the possession of the diving contractor and the person.

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply
	- **(a)** to any person who requires therapeutic compression; or
	- **(b)** in the case of an emergency, to a person who can provide medical treatment, if no person certified under paragraph (1)(a) is available.




### Examination and Testing of Diving Plant and Equipment


**10** 

- **(1)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must use or permit to be used in the diving operation
	- **(a)** only diving plant and equipment that have been examined and, when appropriate, subjected to a pressure leak test using an appropriate breathing mixture at a pressure that is not less than six atmospheres absolute or, when the maximum working pressure that may be encountered during any dive that is part of the diving operation is greater than six atmospheres absolute, at the maximum pressure plus one atmosphere
		- **(i)** not more than three months before the day on which they are to be used,
		- **(ii)** on mobilization and assembly, and
		- **(iii)** following any repair, replacement or alteration of the diving plant and equipment that might affect their safety;
	- **(b)** in the case of a compression chamber, only a compression chamber that
		- **(i)** not more than two years before the day on which it is to be used, has been subjected to a pressure leak test at the maximum working pressure of the chamber using an appropriate breathing mixture, and
		- **(ii)** not more than five years before the day on which it is to be used, has been subjected to an internal pressure test of at least 1.25 times the maximum working pressure of the chamber;
	- **(c)** in the case of a pressure vessel for compressed gases that is not intended to be immersed in water, including compressed air cylinders, only a pressure vessel that has been subjected to
		- **(i)** a thorough examination and internal pressure test not more than five years before the day on which it is to be used, and
		- **(ii)** an internal inspection for corrosion not more than two years before the day on which it is to be used, or within any longer period that the Board approves under subsection 138(4) of the Act;
	- **(d)** in the case of a pressure vessel for compressed gases that is intended to be immersed in water, only a pressure vessel that has been subjected to
		- **(i)** a thorough examination and internal pressure test not more than two years before the day on which it is to be used, and
		- **(ii)** an internal inspection for corrosion not more than one year before the day on which it is to be used, or within such longer period as the Board approves pursuant to subsection 138(4) of the Act; and
	- **(e)** in the case of lifting equipment for a launch and recovery system, only lifting equipment that has been tested
		- **(i)** on first installation and, subsequently, before operational use of the lifting equipment following a repair, replacement or alteration, other than a routine repair, replacement or alteration carried out by a competent person, by means of a functional test, and
		- **(ii)** every six months following a functional test carried out under subparagraph (i), by means of a test that tests the capability of the lifting equipment to operate safely under its maximum working load.

- **(2)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must ensure that
	- **(a)** each examination and test required to be carried out for the purposes of subsection (1) is carried out by or under the supervision of a recognized body and in accordance with an acceptable standard; and
	- **(b)** when a pneumatic or hydrostatic pressure test is carried out for the purposes of subsection (1), adequate precautions are taken to ensure the safety of the personnel involved, the diving plant and equipment and the craft or installation used in the test.

- **(3)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must keep a register in which are inserted or to which are attached certificates
	- **(a)** containing details and results of examinations and tests carried out under subsection (1); and
	- **(b)** signed by the person by whom or under whose supervision the examinations or tests were carried out.

- **(4)** A diving contractor must retain the register referred to in subsection (3)
	- **(a)** in the case of a register that contains certificates relating to pressure vessels, for at least five years after the day on which the last entry is made in it, and
	- **(b)** in any other case, for at least two years after the day on which the last entry is made in it.

- **(5)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used in the diving operation any diving plant and equipment that are unsafe as determined by an examination or test carried out under subsection (1).




### Diving Plant and Equipment


**11** 

- **(1)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used any diving plant and equipment in the diving operation unless their design is such that
	- **(a)** it enables divers and pilots to safely enter and leave the water;
	- **(b)** divers can be safely compressed or decompressed in accordance with the relevant schedule in the appropriate decompression table;
	- **(c)** if a hot-water system is used as the means of heating a diver, a hot-water reservoir is, when practicable, included in the system; and
	- **(d)** the body temperature of a diver or pilot can be maintained within safe limits during the diving operation.

- **(2)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must ensure that
	- **(a)** before the time a diver involved in the diving operation enters the water, the diver is provided with
		- **(i)** a diving harness complete with pelvic support and lifting ring,
		- **(ii)** a depth indicator that is, when reasonably practicable, a type that can be monitored from the surface, and
		- **(iii)** during any period of darkness or low visibility or when requested by the supervisor, a lamp or other suitable device that indicates the diver’s location;
	- **(b)** the first-aid supplies listed in Part 1 of Schedule 4, or equivalent first-aid supplies approved in accordance with section 4 for the diving program of which the diving operation is a part, are
		- **(i)** packed in such a manner that they fit through the medical lock of any surface compression chamber used in the diving operation, and
		- **(ii)** kept on the craft or installation from which the diving operation is conducted, except when it is impracticable in a category I diving operation or an ADS diving operation and when the supervisor approves, in which case the supplies may be kept readily available within a travelling distance of the diving operation that is acceptable to the supervisor;
	- **(c)** if a diving bell or diving submersible is used in the diving operation, the first-aid supplies listed in Part 2 of Schedule 4, or equivalent first-aid supplies approved in accordance with section 4 for the diving program of which the diving operation is a part, are kept in the diving bell or the compression chamber of the diving submersible;
	- **(d)** any airtight container used to pack any of the first-aid supplies referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) for use in the diving operation has a suitable means of equalizing pressure;
	- **(e)** when the safe use of the diving plant and equipment depends on the pressure or depth at which they are used, the diving plant and equipment are clearly marked with the maximum working pressure or the maximum depth at which they may be used;
	- **(f)** any lifeline used in the diving operation has a manufacturer’s breaking strength rating in accordance with an acceptable standard;
	- **(g)** any gas bottle used in the diving operation is clearly marked with the name and chemical formula of its contents;
	- **(h)** any winch used in the diving operation to raise or lower a skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS
		- **(i)** is so constructed that
			- **(A)** a brake or mechanical locking device is applied when the control lever, handle or switch is not held in the operating position,
			- **(B)** the brakes have the capability of stopping and holding 100% of the maximum working load with the outermost layer of wire on the drum,
			- **(C)** the brakes engage automatically on loss of power, and
			- **(D)** the lowering and raising of loads is controlled by power drives independent of the brake mechanism,
		- **(ii)** is not fitted with a pawl and ratchet gear on which the pawl has to be disengaged before beginning a lowering or raising operation,
		- **(iii)** is so designed as to prevent the possibility of freeze-up when in operation,
		- **(iv)** is equipped with a lifting wire capable of withstanding a functional test in accordance with an acceptable standard, and
		- **(v)** complies with an acceptable standard of construction for winches;
	- **(i)** any prime mover used in the diving operation to operate lifting equipment for a skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS is not used for any other purpose;
	- **(j)** except when alternative lifting equipment is provided for any skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS used in the diving operation, an auxiliary prime mover capable of lifting the maximum working load is provided;
	- **(k)** if, during the diving operation, a skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS is being held in position by a hydraulically operated winch that is not equipped with a mechanical locking device, the hydraulic pumps are kept running during the diving operation;
	- **(l)** any craft or installation used in the diving operation is equipped with
		- **(i)** a receiver system that is compatible with the relocation transponder system fitted to any diving bell, diving submersible or ADS that is used in the diving operation, and
		- **(ii)** a hand-held receiver that is suitable for use by a diver or pilot in achieving a final location and that is compatible with the receiver system on the craft or installation and the relocation transponder system on the diving bell, diving submersible or ADS;
	- **(m)** any skip, diving submersible or ADS used in the diving operation is equipped with
		- **(i)** a secondary lifting eye or similar device that is of at least the same strength as the primary lifting eye,
		- **(ii)** where practicable, an additional cable in the form of a suitable tag rope so designed that, in the event the primary lifting cable breaks during a water-air interface transport, the tag rope will not permit the skip, diving submersible or ADS to descend to a depth greater than 25 m, and
		- **(iii)** has readily available, for use in an emergency, a secondary lifting cable that has at least the same strength as the primary lifting cable and that is compatible with the secondary lifting eye or similar device;
	- **(n)** any skip used in the diving operation to transport divers through the water-air interface is
		- **(i)** large enough to carry, in uncramped conditions, at least two divers with their personal diving equipment,
		- **(ii)** secured against tipping or spinning,
		- **(iii)** not encumbered by any equipment that may interfere with an occupant’s foothold or handhold,
		- **(iv)** equipped with handholds arranged in such a manner that crushed-hand injuries during launch or recovery are avoided,
		- **(v)** so constructed or equipped that its occupants are secure against falling out of the skip, and
		- **(vi)** in the case of a skip that is a wet bell, equipped with an additional band mask or full face mask;
	- **(o)** any diving submersible or ADS used in the diving operation is equipped with
		- **(i)** a stroboscopic light that is automatically activated in the water and a pinger that operates at a frequency of 37.5 KHz, and
		- **(ii)** a relocation transponder system that operates at a frequency of 37.5 KHz, if approved by the Board under subsection 138(4) of the Act;
	- **(p)** a secondary source of power that will operate in the event of a failure of the primary source of power is provided for the diving operation, can be brought on-line rapidly and has sufficient capacity to
		- **(i)** operate the handling system for any skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS used in the diving operation,
		- **(ii)** heat any compression chamber used in the diving operation and heat, for the period required to complete the diving operation, any diver who is involved in the diving operation and who is in the water,
		- **(iii)** sustain the life-support system of any compression chamber used in the diving operation and of any diver who makes a dive that is part of the diving operation,
		- **(iv)** illuminate the interior of any compression chamber used in the diving operation, and
		- **(v)** operate any communication system and monitoring system used in the diving operation; and
	- **(q)** if any craft is used in the diving operation, there is a safe means of ensuring that the craft is, during the diving operation,
		- **(i)** at anchor,
		- **(ii)** made fast to the shore or to an installation,
		- **(iii)** maintained in position using its propulsion system in accordance with section 24, or
		- **(iv)** used in a manner that is approved by the Board under subsection 138(4) of the Act or that is approved in accordance with section 4 for the diving program of which the diving operation is a part.




### Communication Systems


**12** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), a diving contractor must not conduct a diving operation unless there is available for use in the diving operation
	- **(a)** for communications between the supervisor and any diver or pilot involved in the diving operation
		- **(i)** a primary communication system that has
			- **(A)** sound reproduction adequate to enable breathing to be clearly heard and oral communications to be clearly heard and understandable, and
			- **(B)** a recording device that continuously records all oral communications while a dive is in progress, and
		- **(ii)** a secondary communication system that allows the supervisor and the divers or pilots to communicate orally in the event of a failure of the primary communication system; and
	- **(b)** for communications between the supervisor and any person involved in, or in a position to assist in, the diving operation, other than the divers and pilots referred to in paragraph (a), a communication system that meets the requirements of paragraph 5(1)(f).

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply to a diving operation in which SCUBA is used and when it is impracticable to use the communication systems referred to in that subsection, in which case a diving contractor must not conduct such a diving operation unless there is available for use in the diving operation an alternative method of communication that the supervisor considers suitable for the diving operation.




### Pressure Vessels


**13** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used in the diving operation a pressure vessel intended for human occupancy unless the pressure vessel is equipped with
- **(a)** a breathing mask for each occupant of the pressure vessel;
- **(b)** a means of maintaining the oxygen, carbon dioxide, temperature and humidity in the pressure vessel at levels and pressures that are safe for the occupants; and
- **(c)** for use in an emergency, a back-up capability to maintain the levels and pressures referred to in paragraph (b) for a minimum of, in the case of a diving bell or the compression chamber of a diving submersible, 24 hours and, in any other case, 48 hours.




### Compression Chambers


**14** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used a compression chamber in the diving operation unless the compression chamber
- **(a)** meets the requirements of section 13;
- **(b)** is designed and constructed in accordance with an acceptable standard;
- **(c)** provides a suitable environment for its occupants, including amenities appropriate to the type, depth and duration of the diving operation;
- **(d)** is equipped with doors that act as pressure seals and that can be opened from both the inside and the outside;
- **(e)** is designed to minimize the risk of fire and
	- **(i)** is constructed of only non-combustible or fire-resistant materials, and
	- **(ii)** is equipped with suitable fire-fighting capabilities;
- **(f)** is fitted with adequate equipment, including facilities for
	- **(i)** supplying to and maintaining for its occupants an appropriate breathing mixture,
	- **(ii)** lighting and heating the compression chamber, and
	- **(iii)** removing carbon dioxide;
- **(g)** is equipped with valves, gauges and other fittings necessary to indicate and control the internal pressures of each compartment from outside the compression chamber;
- **(h)** is fitted with piping that has at least one external shut-off valve, where practicable, immediately outside the point at which the piping enters the compression chamber and one internal shut-off valve immediately inside that point;
- **(i)** is fitted with hull integrity valves that clearly indicate whether the valves are in the open or closed position and that are clearly labelled by name and number;
- **(j)** other than a diving bell and the compression chamber of a diving submersible, is equipped with a built-in breathing system that permits outside dumping of exhaled gas;
- **(k)** when appropriate, is equipped with an emergency shut-off valve that automatically shuts off the flow of gas from the compression chamber if the velocity or volume of gas exceeds the preset limit;
- **(l)** is equipped with relief valves resistant to marine corrosion;
- **(m)** has all of its internal electrical wiring insulated and in conduit, except for the wiring for low-power devices such as telephones;
- **(n)** is cleaned and disinfected using only products that are
	- **(i)** recommended by the manufacturer for that type of use,
	- **(ii)** well proven for that purpose,
	- **(iii)** non-toxic at any pressure,
	- **(iv)** non-corrosive, and
	- **(v)** safe to use;
- **(o)** when used in a category II dive or a category III dive or, where practicable, in a category I dive, is provided with a coupling arrangement that is suitable for the safe transfer of persons under pressure and that is designed to prevent accidental release;
- **(p)** is provided with a clamping mechanism that
	- **(i)** is suitable for coupling a diving bell with the surface compression chamber,
	- **(ii)** clearly indicates when the clamping mechanism is fully engaged, and
	- **(iii)** cannot be disengaged while pressurized;
- **(q)** is supplied with breathing mixture through a gas control panel that
	- **(i)** has distinct indicators of the function of each valve and gauge, and
	- **(ii)** is designed so as to minimize the possibility of supplying an incorrect breathing mixture;
- **(r)** if manufactured after December 31, 1990,
	- **(i)** is fitted with a device to record continuously and to preserve at least the last recorded four hours of data respecting temperature, oxygen levels, depth, time and oral communications and, when where practicable, carbon dioxide and humidity levels, and
	- **(ii)** where practicable, is provided with a means to permit video monitoring of its occupants; and
- **(s)** if manufactured on or before December 31, 1990, meets the requirements set out in paragraph (r) if the Board so determines under subsection 138(4) of the Act.




### Surface Compression Chambers


**15** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used a surface compression chamber in the diving operation unless the surface compression chamber
- **(a)** meets the requirements of sections 13 and 14;
- **(b)** contains at least two independently sealable compartments;
- **(c)** contains sufficient space in at least one of its compartments to enable each occupant to lie down comfortably in the compartment;
- **(d)** if a person will be in the surface compression chamber for a period of eight consecutive hours or less, has an internal vertical diameter of at least 1.5 m;
- **(e)** if a person will be in the surface compression chamber for a period of more than eight consecutive hours, has an internal vertical diameter of at least 2 m;
- **(f)** is equipped with a medical lock;
- **(g)** if the surface compression chamber will be used for a period of more than 12 consecutive hours, has adequate sanitation facilities;
- **(h)** if manufactured after December 31, 1990, is fitted with a through-hull connector suitable for medical monitoring of its occupants; and
- **(i)** if manufactured on or before December 31, 1990, meets the requirements set out in paragraph (h) if the Board so determines under subsection 138(4) of the Act.




### Diving Bells


**16** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used a diving bell in the diving operation unless the diving bell
- **(a)** meets the requirements of sections 13 and 14;
- **(b)** is equipped to permit the safe transfer of persons under pressure to and from a surface compression chamber;
- **(c)** is of a design that
	- **(i)** provides for an internal space of at least 2 m<sup>3</sup> for two-person occupancy and 3 m<sup>3</sup> for three-person occupancy,
	- **(ii)** enables divers to enter and exit without difficulty, and
	- **(iii)** allows at least two divers dressed-in for a diving operation to be seated comfortably in the diving bell;
- **(d)** is equipped with valves, gauges and other fittings necessary to control the internal pressure and to indicate both inside the diving bell and at the diving station the internal and external pressures;
- **(e)** is so equipped that any valve used to pressurize the diving bell is spring-loaded so as to close when not held in the open position;
- **(f)** contains adequate equipment, including reserve facilities, for supplying the appropriate breathing mixture to persons occupying or working from the diving bell, which reserve facilities must be protected against inadvertent operation and be capable of being brought on-line from inside the diving bell without the assistance of any other person;
- **(g)** is equipped with a two-way oral communication system by means of which a person inside the diving bell can communicate with the diving supervisor and, via the diving supervisor, with other persons;
- **(h)** contains equipment for lighting and heating the diving bell;
- **(i)** is equipped with suitable emergency life-support equipment and provisions for each occupant of the diving bell;
- **(j)** is equipped with a lifting device sufficient to enable an unconscious or injured diver to be hoisted into the diving bell by a person located in it;
- **(k)** is provided with lifting equipment that enables the diving bell to be lowered to the depth at which the diving operation is to be conducted, to be maintained in its position and to be raised, all without excessive lateral, vertical or rotational movement;
- **(l)** is provided with a means by which, in the event of the failure of the lifting equipment referred to in paragraph (k), the diving bell can be returned to the surface and, if that means involves the shedding of weights, the controls for that shedding can be operated from within the diving bell, and a means is incorporated to prevent the accidental shedding of those weights;
- **(m)** in addition to a primary lifting cable, is equipped with a suitable tag rope so designed that, in the event the primary cable breaks during a water-air interface transport, the tag rope will not permit the diving bell to descend to a depth greater than 25 m;
- **(n)** is equipped with a secondary lifting eye, or similar device that is of at least the same strength as the primary lifting eye, and is provided with a secondary lifting cable that is readily available and that has at least the same strength as the primary lifting cable and is compatible with the secondary lifting eye or similar device;
- **(o)** is fitted with equipment to enable occupants of the diving bell to monitor the temperature and the oxygen and carbon dioxide levels within the diving bell;
- **(p)** is equipped with a stroboscopic light that is automatically activated in the water and a pinger that operates at a frequency of 37.5 kHz;
- **(q)** if approved by the Board under subsection 138(4) of the Act, is fitted with a relocation transponder system that operates at a frequency of 37.5 kHz;
- **(r)** when appropriate, is fitted with hull integrity valves and non-return valves on all gas and, where practicable, hot-water circuits connected to the diving bell;
- **(s)** if manufactured after December 31, 1990,
	- **(i)** is so designed that, if necessary, a diver within the diving bell can
		- **(A)** disconnect or shear the primary lifting cable and the umbilical,
		- **(B)** disconnect or shear any other attachments that might prevent ascent,
		- **(C)** start, accelerate, decelerate or stop the ascent, and
		- **(D)** where practicable, start, accelerate, decelerate or stop the descent, and
	- **(ii)** is fitted with a device to record continuously and to preserve at least the last recorded four hours of data respecting temperature, oxygen levels, depth, time, oral communications, internal and external ambient pressure and the quantity of breathing mixture and electrical power available for use in an emergency and, where practicablee, carbon dioxide and humidity levels; and
- **(t)** if manufactured on or before December 31, 1990, meets the requirements set out in paragraph (s) if the Board so determines under subsection 138(4) of the Act.




### Diving Submersibles


**17** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used a diving submersible in the diving operation unless
- **(a)** the compression chamber of the diving submersible meets the requirements of sections 13, 14 and 16, except paragraphs 16(k) to (n) and subparagraph 16(s)(i);
- **(b)** during any period in which the diving submersible is in use, it is
	- **(i)** resting on the bottom,
	- **(ii)** firmly secured at or near the work site where it is to be used, or
	- **(iii)** secured in a manner that is approved by the Board under subsection 138(4) of the Act or that is approved in accordance with section 4 for the diving program of which the diving operation is a part;
- **(c)** there is a means of maintaining at a safe level the body temperature of a person in the compression chamber of the diving submersible and a person in the water making a dive from the diving submersible; and
- **(d)** a diver is present in the compression chamber of the diving submersible at any time that a dive is in progress.




### Oxygen Supply Systems


**18** 

- **(1)** When an oxygen supply system is to be used in a diving operation, the diving contractor who conducts the diving operation must use or permit to be used only an oxygen supply system the design of which complies with the following requirements:
	- **(a)** the use of hoses and piping is kept to a minimum;
	- **(b)** the materials used are compatible with oxygen at the pressures and temperatures for which the oxygen supply system is designed;
	- **(c)** the possibility of contamination of the oxygen by other gases, and vice versa, is minimized;
	- **(d)** high-velocity flows of oxygen is avoided;
	- **(e)** the differential pressure throughout the oxygen supply system is kept as low as is practicable; and
	- **(f)** quick-shut-off valves are not installed in the oxygen supply system except for one-quarter-turn valves that are connected to lines with reduced oxygen pressure and that may be used in an emergency.

- **(2)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must ensure that
	- **(a)** any oxygen storage area for the diving operation is
		- **(i)** adequately ventilated,
		- **(ii)** properly identified with warning signs,
		- **(iii)** equipped with a fire suppression system,
		- **(iv)** kept clear of and located as far as practicable away from combustible materials, and
		- **(v)** if located in an enclosed area, equipped with an oxygen detector and an alarm designed to give warning of oxygen levels in excess of the concentration of oxygen in the ambient air;
	- **(b)** any person responsible for handling or otherwise dealing with oxygen is specially trained in that work; and
	- **(c)** oxygen is transferred using only pumps, compressors or pressure differential systems that are
		- **(i)** recommended for that purpose by the manufacturer,
		- **(ii)** operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, and
		- **(iii)** operated by a person authorized to do so by the supervisor.




### Breathing Mixture Supply Systems


**19** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must use or permit to be used in the diving operation only a breathing mixture supply system that is so designed that
- **(a)** any interruption of the supply of breathing mixture to a person will not affect in any manner the supply of breathing mixture to any other person; and
- **(b)** any failure of the primary supply of breathing mixture to a person will not affect in any manner the supply of breathing mixture to the person from the person’s bailout gas bottle or from the reserve referred to in subparagraph 21(1)(a)(ii).



**20** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or allow to be used in the diving operation an on-line gas blender or diver’s gas recovery system unless, at all times that the blender or recovery system is in use,
- **(a)** there is a buffer tank in use downstream of the blender or recovery system, as the case may be;
- **(b)** the blended breathing mixture is constantly analyzed for its oxygen content; and
- **(c)** the quantity, referred to in clause 21(1)(a)(iii)(C), of appropriate breathing mixture bypassing, in an emergency, the blender or recovery system, as the case may be, is available for immediate use.




### Quantity and Quality of Breathing Mixture


**21** 

- **(1)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not conduct or permit the beginning or continuation of the diving operation unless
	- **(a)** the total quantity of appropriate breathing mixture that is available at any time during the diving operation consists of
		- **(i)** an adequate quantity to complete the diving operation,
		- **(ii)** a reasonable quantity for a reserve supply, and
		- **(iii)** for use in an emergency, an additional supply that is
			- **(A)** in the case of a diving operation in which a diving bell is used, a sufficient quantity to meet the needs of the occupants of the diving bell for a minimum of 24 hours,
			- **(B)** in the case of a diving operation in which an ADS is used, a sufficient quantity to meet the needs of the occupants of the ADS for a minimum of 48 hours,
			- **(C)** in the case of a diving operation in which an on-line gas blender or diver’s gas recovery system is used, a sufficient quantity to allow the divers to continue, interrupt or discontinue the diving operation safely, and
			- **(D)** in the case of a diving operation in which a surface compression chamber is used, a quantity that is twice the amount required to pressurize the surface compression chamber to a pressure equivalent to the pressure at the greatest depth in respect of which the surface compression chamber will be used in the diving operation;
	- **(b)** the purity of the breathing mixture is of an acceptable standard; and
	- **(c)** the quantities referred to in subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (iii) are available for immediate use at a flow rate, temperature and pressure that are safe for the user.

- **(2)** A diving contractor must not conduct a diving operation unless
	- **(a)** any breathing mixture to be used in the diving operation is
		- **(i)** analyzed for the accuracy of its oxygen content and, when practicable, its other contents immediately before the beginning of the dive that is part of the diving operation, and
		- **(ii)** supplied at temperature and humidity levels that are safe; and
	- **(b)** the levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the breathing mixture to be used in the diving operation are maintained at levels that are suitable for the type, depth and duration of the diving operation.




### Evacuation, Rescue and Treatment Facilities


**22** 

- **(1)** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must provide for the availability of evacuation, rescue and treatment facilities and devices that
	- **(a)** are suitable for the type, depth and duration of the diving operation and for the environmental conditions under which the diving operation is conducted; and
	- **(b)** have been approved in accordance with section 4 for the diving program of which the diving operation is a part.

- **(2)** The evacuation, rescue and treatment facilities and devices referred to in subsection (1) must be available
	- **(a)** for use by persons involved in the diving operation as quickly as possible and within the period for which the life-support system of the surface compression chamber, diving bell or ADS used in the diving operation is capable of maintaining the life of the occupants; and
	- **(b)** where practicable, on site.




### Medical Services


**23** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must
- **(a)** ensure that at all times during the diving operation each diving crew involved in the diving operation includes a hyperbaric first-aid technician available on the craft or installation from which the diving operation is being conducted;
- **(b)** arrange for the services, on a 24-hour-a-day basis, of a specialized diving doctor, referred to in paragraph 3(3)(d), who is familiar with the diving procedures to be used in the diving operation and who is within a travelling distance of the diving operation that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer, to provide medical assistance in the event of an emergency;
- **(c)** ensure that an adequate means of communication exists on a 24-hour-a-day basis between the specialized diving doctor referred to in paragraph (b) and
	- **(i)** the diving station, or
	- **(ii)** the craft or installation from which the diving operation is being conducted; and
- **(d)** locate the nearest surface compression chamber that is compatible with the equipment used in the diving operation and that is suitable for the type, depth and duration of the diving operation being conducted and make arrangements for the use of that surface compression chamber in the event of an emergency.




### Craft in Dynamically Positioned Mode


**24** A diving contractor who conducts a diving operation must not use or permit to be used a craft in the dynamically positioned mode in the diving operation unless that use was specifically approved in accordance with section 4 for the diving program of which the diving operation is a part and the following requirements are complied with:
- **(a)** the craft is so designed and constructed that
	- **(i)** more than one prime mover is available for each fore, aft and thwartship thruster,
	- **(ii)** in the event of the failure of any prime mover or manoeuvring unit of the craft, the position of the craft can be maintained during the period it would take for the safe recovery of divers,
	- **(iii)** the arrangement of the thrusters and their size and number enable, in the event of the loss of any thruster of the craft, the heading and the position of the craft to be maintained within the environmental and operational capacity limits of the craft for the time it takes to safely recover any skip, diving bell or ADS used in the diving operation,
	- **(iv)** for each manoeuvring unit necessary to maintain the craft in the dynamically positioned mode, other than the propellers and energy plant units, there is a reserve duplicate unit and an automatic and a manual system to switch from the on-line unit to the duplicate unit,
	- **(v)** the supervisor on duty at the diving station on the craft can, by means of an alarm system connecting the bridge of the craft to the diving station on the craft, be kept informed by the person who controls the dynamic positioning system of any station-keeping problems or any other problems that might affect the safety of the diving operation,
	- **(vi)** a computer system controls the dynamic positioning of the craft and another independent, duplicate computer system is available to take over control automatically in the event of failure of the on-line computer system, and
	- **(vii)** there are on line at least two reference systems independently linked into each computer system referred to in subparagraph (vi);
- **(b)** during any time that a person involved in the diving operation is in the water
	- **(i)** a person who is responsible for the navigation of the craft and a person who is responsible for the control of the dynamic positioning system are in the control room of the craft,
	- **(ii)** the machinery spaces of the craft, except those in the pontoons of a semi-submersible craft, are manned, and
	- **(iii)** in any one manoeuvre, the craft is not moved more than 5 m or the heading of the craft is not changed more than 5°, whichever is the lesser movement in relation to the location of the site of the diving operation; and
- **(c)** any person who is responsible for the control of the dynamic positioning system of the craft has at least six months’ experience using both the manual and the automatic modes of that particular system or, when that is impracticable, of a similar system, and at least two weeks’ briefing by the designer or manufacturer of the system on the behaviour and hydrodynamics of that craft when operating in the dynamically positioned mode.




**PART 4** 
## Diving Safety Specialists


**25** 

- **(1)** An operator, under paragraph 5(1)(a), or a diving contractor, under subsection 8(1), must not engage the services of a person as a diving safety specialist unless the person holds a diving supervisor’s certificate that is issued under section 68 and that is appropriate to the category of dive in respect of which the person will be giving advice and
	- **(a)** has passed a test that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer as indicating that the person has an adequate knowledge of the safety, personnel, technical, operational, management, marketing and regulatory aspects of diving operations appropriate to the category of diving supervisor’s certificate that the person holds; or
	- **(b)** has demonstrated to the Board that the person’s knowledge is equivalent to the knowledge described in paragraph (a).

- **(2)** A person who has been engaged as a diving safety specialist for a diving program by an operator, under paragraph 5(1)(a), must
	- **(a)** advise the operator on all safety aspects of the diving program including
		- **(i)** any application for approval, under subsection 138(4) of the Act, for the diving program,
		- **(ii)** any application made by the operator for authorization under subsection 151(1) of the Act, and
		- **(iii)** any decision by the operator to interrupt or discontinue the diving program or any portion of the diving program for safety reasons; and
	- **(b)** be available on a 24-hour-a-day basis to advise any person involved in the diving program, including any person making decisions affecting the safety of divers involved in the diving program, on all safety aspects of the diving program.

- **(3)** A person who has been engaged as a diving safety specialist for a diving operation by a diving contractor, under subsection 8(1), must
	- **(a)** advise the diving contractor on all safety aspects of the diving operation; and
	- **(b)** be available on a 24-hour-a-day basis to advise any person involved in the diving operation, including any person making decisions affecting all safety of divers involved in the diving operation, on the safety aspects of the diving operation.

- **(4)** A diving safety specialist referred to in subsection (2) or (3) must, in advising any person under that subsection, take into account as a primary consideration the safety of any divers involved in the diving program or diving operation, as the case may be.




**PART 5** 
## Supervisors



### Supervision of a Category I Diving Operation


**26** A person must not supervise a category I diving operation unless the person
- **(a)** has been appointed in writing under paragraph 8(3)(a);
- **(b)** has been certified to be medically fit
	- **(i)** to dive, in accordance with paragraph 52(b), or
	- **(ii)** to supervise by a medical doctor who has examined the person not more than 12 months before the day on which the diving operation is to be conducted and who has recorded the results of the examination on a medical examination record in the form set out in Schedule 5, or on another form acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer, and in a diving supervisor’s medical certificate in that person’s supervisor’s logbook, referred to in section 50;
- **(c)** holds a valid diving supervisor’s certificate issued under section 27, 29, 31 or 68, or a valid document that is
	- **(i)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 27, 29 or 31, and
	- **(ii)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer; and
- **(d)** has satisfied the diving contractor who conducts the diving operation that
	- **(i)** the person has sufficient diving and supervisory experience and adequate knowledge in the use of the diving plant and equipment to be used in the diving operation, or a similar type of diving plant and equipment, and the breathing mixture to be used in the diving operation and is familiar with the relevant provisions of the procedures manual referred to in paragraph 3(4)(a) and the contingency plan referred to in paragraph 3(4)(g) to be used in the diving operation, and
	- **(ii)** the person’s involvement in the diving operation is in no way contrary to any restriction inserted in that person’s diving supervisor’s certificate or attached to that person’s document referred to in paragraph (c) in accordance with section 34.




### Category I Diving Supervisor’s Certificate


**27** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue a category I diving supervisor’s certificate that is valid for one year to a person who
	- **(a)** has
		- **(i)** been, for at least three years, the holder of a category I diving certificate issued under section 53 or 68, or a document that is
			- **(A)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 53, and
			- **(B)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer,
		- **(ii)** been, during the 12 months before the application, an assistant diving supervisor for at least 16 category I dives and has supervised at least two real or mock incidents involving decompression sickness,
		- **(iii)** submitted to the Chief Safety Officer a letter of recommendation in the form set out in Schedule 6 that is signed by a diving contractor or operator and by a diving supervisor, and
		- **(iv)** passed a test acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer for a category I diving supervisor’s certificate;
	- **(b)** held a category I diving supervisor’s certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and who meets the requirements of subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (iii); or
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board that their training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under paragraph (a).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of a category I diving supervisor’s certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has supervised at least 12 category I dives and at least two real or mock incidents involving decompression sickness during the 12 months before the application.




### Supervision of a Category II Diving Operation


**28** A person must not supervise a category II diving operation unless the person
- **(a)** has been appointed in writing under paragraph 8(3)(b);
- **(b)** meets the criteria set out in paragraphs 26(b) and (d); and
- **(c)** holds a valid diving supervisor’s certificate issued under section 29, 31 or 68, or a valid document that is
	- **(i)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 29 or 31, and
	- **(ii)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer.




### Category II Diving Supervisor’s Certificate


**29** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue a category II diving supervisor’s certificate that is valid for one year to a person who
	- **(a)** has
		- **(i)** been, for at least two years, the holder of a category II diving certificate issued under section 55 or 68, or a document that is
			- **(A)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 55, and
			- **(B)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer,
		- **(ii)** been, during the 12 months before the application, an assistant diving supervisor for at least six category II dives and 10 category I dives and has supervised at least two real or mock incidents involving decompression sickness,
		- **(iii)** submitted to the Chief Safety Officer a letter of recommendation in the form set out in Schedule 6 that is signed by a diving contractor or operator and by a diving supervisor who holds a category II or III diving supervisor’s certificate, and
		- **(iv)** passed a test acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer for a category II diving supervisor’s certificate;
	- **(b)** held a category II diving supervisor’s certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and who meets the requirements of subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (iii); or
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board that their training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under paragraph (a).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of a category II diving supervisor’s certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has supervised at least 12 dives, of which at least six were category II dives, and at least two real or mock incidents involving decompression sickness during the 12 months before the application.




### Supervision of a Category III Diving Operation


**30** A person must not supervise a category III diving operation unless the person
- **(a)** has been appointed in writing under paragraph 8(3)(c);
- **(b)** meets the criteria set out in paragraphs 26(b) and (d); and
- **(c)** holds a valid category III diving supervisor’s certificate issued under section 31 or 68, or a valid document that is
	- **(i)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 31, and
	- **(ii)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer.




### Category III Diving Supervisor’s Certificate


**31** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue a category III diving supervisor’s certificate that is valid for one year to a person who
	- **(a)** has
		- **(i)** been, for at least two years, the holder of a category III diving certificate issued under section 57 or 68, or a document that is
			- **(A)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 57, and
			- **(B)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer,
		- **(ii)** been, during the 12 months before the application, an assistant diving supervisor for at least 16 dives, of which at least two were saturation dives and six were category II dives, and has supervised at least two real or mock incidents involving decompression sickness,
		- **(iii)** submitted to the Chief Safety Officer a letter of recommendation in the form set out in Schedule 6 that is signed by a diving contractor or operator and by two diving supervisors, each of whom holds a category III diving supervisor’s certificate, and
		- **(iv)** passed a test acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer for a category III diving supervisor’s certificate;
	- **(b)** held a category III diving supervisor’s certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and who meets the requirements of subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (iii); or
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board that their training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under paragraph (a).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of a category III diving supervisor’s certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has supervised at least 12 dives, of which at least one was a saturation dive and at least six were category II dives, and has supervised at least two real or mock incidents involving decompression sickness during the 12 months before the application.




### Supervision of an ADS Diving Operation


**32** A person must not supervise an ADS diving operation unless the person
- **(a)** has been appointed in writing under paragraph 8(3)(d);
- **(b)** meets the criteria set out in paragraph 26(b) and subparagraph 26(d)(ii);
- **(c)** has demonstrated to the diving contractor who conducts the diving operation that the person has sufficient pilot and ADS supervisory experience and adequate knowledge of the use of the type of ADS to be used in the diving operation and is familiar with the relevant provisions of the procedures manual referred to in paragraph 3(4)(a) and the contingency plan referred to in paragraph 3(4)(g) to be used in the diving operation; and
- **(d)** holds a valid ADS supervisor’s certificate issued under section 33 or 68, or a valid document that is
	- **(i)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 33, and
	- **(ii)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer.




### ADS Supervisor’s Certificate


**33** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue an ADS supervisor’s certificate that is valid for one year to a person who
	- **(a)** has
		- **(i)** been, for at least three years, the holder of a pilot’s certificate issued pursuant to section 63 or 68, or a document that is
			- **(A)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under section 63, and
			- **(B)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer,
		- **(ii)** made at least 20 ADS dives with a total bottom time of at least 80 hours, and
		- **(iii)** submitted to the Chief Safety Officer a letter of recommendation that is signed by a diving contractor or operator and by an ADS supervisor and that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer;
	- **(b)** held an ADS supervisor’s certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and has supervised at least 10 ADS dives with a total bottom time of at least 25 hours during the 12 months before the application; or
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board that their training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience required of a person to obtain a certificate under paragraph (a).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of an ADS supervisor’s certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has supervised at least six ADS dives with a total bottom time of at least 20 hours during the 12 months before the application.




### Restrictions Respecting Supervisor’s Certificate and Document


**34** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may insert in a supervisor’s certificate issued under section 27, 29, 31, 33 or 68, or attach to a document referred to in subparagraph 27(1)(a)(i), 29(1)(a)(i), 31(1)(a)(i) or 33(1)(a)(i), restrictions with respect to the supervision of a diving operation by the holder of the certificate or the document if the Chief Safety Officer considers the restrictions necessary for safety reasons.

- **(2)** If the Chief Safety Officer inserts a restriction in a certificate or attaches a restriction to a document under subsection (1), the Chief Safety Officer must give the holder of the certificate or the document an opportunity to show cause why the restriction should not be inserted or attached.




### Invalidation of Supervisor’s Certificate


**35** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may invalidate a supervisor’s certificate issued under section 27, 29, 31, 33 or 68 if, in the opinion of the Chief Safety Officer, the holder of the certificate has become incompetent or incapacitated.

- **(2)** If the Chief Safety Officer proposes to invalidate a supervisor’s certificate pursuant to subsection (1), the Chief Safety Officer must give the holder of the certificate at least 30 days’ notice in writing setting out the reasons for the proposed invalidation and must give the holder an opportunity to show cause why the certificate should not be invalidated.




### Duties of Supervisors


**36** 

- **(1)** A diving supervisor must not, in a diving operation supervised by the diving supervisor, permit a person to make
	- **(a)** a category I dive in the diving operation unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 52, 54 or 56;
	- **(b)** a category II dive in the diving operation unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 54 or 56; or
	- **(c)** a category III dive in the diving operation unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 56.

- **(2)** An ADS supervisor must not, in an ADS diving operation supervised by the ADS supervisor, permit a person to make an ADS dive in the diving operation unless the person meets the criteria set out in section 62.

- **(3)** A supervisor must not, in a diving operation under their supervision, permit a person to be involved in the diving operation if the supervisor believes on reasonable grounds that the person is unfit to be involved in the diving operation or that the involvement of the person in the diving operation could compromise the safety of other persons involved in the diving operation.

- **(4)** A diving supervisor must plan dives in such a manner that the total bottom time of a diver supervised by the supervisor does not exceed, in any 24-hour period,
	- **(a)** in the case of a category I dive,
		- **(i)** five hours at depths of 20 m or less, or
		- **(ii)** three hours at depths of more than 20 m;
	- **(b)** in the case of a category II dive, three hours; and
	- **(c)** in the case of a category III dive, eight hours.

- **(5)** A diving supervisor must plan a diving operation in such a manner that, where practicable, a diving bell is used in the diving operation for any dive to a depth of more than 30 m that requires surface decompression.

- **(6)** An ADS supervisor must ensure that a pilot supervised by the supervisor does not spend more than eight hours underwater in any 24-hour period.

- **(7)** A supervisor must ensure that, following a dive under the supervisor’s supervision, the diver or pilot who made the dive has an adequate rest period.



**37** 

- **(1)** The supervisor must be present at the diving station from which the diving operation is controlled at all times during the diving operation or during the period in which the supervisor is on duty, as the case may be, and must
	- **(a)** directly control the diving operation;
	- **(b)** use, during the total dive time of the diving operation, a sufficient number of trained persons to operate the diving plant and equipment used in that diving operation; and
	- **(c)** follow the relevant provisions of the applicable procedures manual for that diving operation.

- **(2)** Despite any other provision of these Regulations, the supervisor may, in the case of an emergency, allow or direct the use of diving techniques, equipment and procedures not permitted by these Regulations where that use provides the only available practicable means of ensuring or enhancing the safety of the persons involved in the diving operation.

- **(3)** The supervisor must interrupt or discontinue the diving operation if
	- **(a)** continuation of the diving operation would or is likely to compromise the safety of any person involved in the diving operation;
	- **(b)** the water currents at the underwater work site of the diving operation are likely to compromise the safety of a diver or pilot involved in the diving operation; or
	- **(c)** combustible material is stored too close for safety to any diving plant and equipment used in the diving operation.

- **(4)** The supervisor that involves the use of a diving submersible must, where practicable, discontinue the diving operation if the unused stored electrical power of the diving submersible reaches 20% of the electrical power capacity of the diving submersible, excluding the back-up capability referred to in paragraph 13(c).

- **(5)** If the supervisor wishes to begin or continue the diving operation and the person in charge of the craft or installation from which the diving operation is being conducted considers that the beginning or continuation of the diving operation would compromise the safety of any person on the craft or installation or the safety of the craft or installation, the decision of the person in charge of the craft or installation respecting the beginning or continuation of the diving operation overrules the supervisor’s decision.

- **(6)** In the event of an accident, the supervisor must
	- **(a)** take any measures that are necessary to provide treatment to any person injured in the accident and to ensure the safety of the persons involved in the diving operation;
	- **(b)** interrupt the diving operation or any portion of the diving operation that may have caused or contributed to the accident until the diving operation or portion of the diving operation can be safely resumed;
	- **(c)** deliver the diving operations logbook referred to in paragraph 8(5)(m) to the operator responsible for the diving operation as soon as possible after the accident;
	- **(d)** keep the site of the accident undisturbed until a conservation officer has completed inspection of the site;
	- **(e)** prepare a written report that contains a description of the accident, a summary of the events that led to the accident and the measures taken following the accident; and
	- **(f)** deliver to the operator responsible for the diving operation the report referred to in paragraph (e).



**38** 

- **(1)** A supervisor must not conduct a diving operation unless
	- **(a)** before the beginning of a dive that is part of the diving operation, the supervisor has consulted the person in charge of the craft or installation from which the diving operation will be conducted and any other person whose assistance the supervisor considers necessary for the dive;
	- **(b)** the supervisor has taken into account, in any decision respecting the diving operation, the meteorological data available to the supervisor and the environmental conditions in the area of the proposed dive site;
	- **(c)** protective headgear is available for any diver involved in the diving operation at any time that the diver is at or below the surface of the water and, where practicable, at any time the diver is transported in a skip;
	- **(d)** during any period of darkness or low visibility,
		- **(i)** any diver involved in the diving operation is provided with, and has attached to the diver’s person, a lamp or other suitable device that indicates the diver’s location, and
		- **(ii)** when the nature of the diving operation permits, the dive site and the underwater work site of the diving operation are adequately illuminated;
	- **(e)** any standby diver involved in the diving operation has an umbilical at least 3 m longer than the umbilical of the diver for whom the stand-by diver acts as stand-by;
	- **(f)** the divers and pilots involved in the diving operation are protected from any danger or hazards that could be caused by
		- **(i)** sonar,
		- **(ii)** devices emitting electromagnetic or ionizing radiation,
		- **(iii)** the propeller and the manoeuvring unit of any craft from which the diving operation is being conducted and the flows of water created by the propeller and the manoeuvring unit,
		- **(iv)** the normal movements of a craft referred to in subparagraph (iii) and any movements of the craft caused by unexpected loss of power or stability,
		- **(v)** any suction or water current encountered in or resulting from the diving operation, and
		- **(vi)** equipment on a craft or an installation from which the diving operation is being conducted; and
	- **(g)** plans have been made, in the event that a craft from which the diving operation is being conducted loses power, to protect and to recover a diver or pilot involved in the diving operation who is in the water.

- **(2)** A diving supervisor must not permit a diver supervised by the supervisor to enter the water unless
	- **(a)** the diver
		- **(i)** is wearing a diving harness complete with a pelvic support and lifting ring and is equipped, where practicable, with a depth indicator capable of being monitored from the surface, and
		- **(ii)** has a bailout gas bottle that is independent of the primary supply of breathing mixture to the diver; and
	- **(b)** all impressed current cathodic protection devices situated within a radius of 5 m from the diver’s underwater work site are deactivated and the notice referred to in subparagraph 5(1)(g)(ii) is prominently displayed on the controls of the devices, or other equally effective measures are taken to ensure the safety of any diver within a radius of 5 m of any active impressed current cathodic protection devices.




### Restrictions Respecting Dive Sites


**39** 

- **(1)** A diving supervisor must not permit a diver supervised by the supervisor to make a dive that is part of a diving operation from
	- **(a)** a place referred to in paragraph 5(1)(b) that is unsuitable;
	- **(b)** a craft that has insufficient power or stability for the safe conduct of the dive;
	- **(c)** a dive site located more than 2 m above the water unless a suitable skip, diving bell or diving submersible is used to transport the diver through the air-water interface;
	- **(d)** a dynamically positioned craft unless
		- **(i)** the craft has been operating in the dynamically positioned mode for at least 30 minutes before the diver enters the water,
		- **(ii)** the range of surge or sway movement of the water at the dive site is less than 80% of the maximum operational capacity limit of the craft,
		- **(iii)** a skip or a diving bell is positioned as close as possible to the diver’s underwater work site,
		- **(iv)** all reasonable precautions are taken to prevent any umbilical used in the dive from coming into contact with any propeller or manoeuvring unit of the craft,
		- **(v)** any change of heading or positioning of the craft, at any time that a diver involved in the diving operation is in the water, is made only after the diving supervisor has granted permission for the change and the diver has been notified, and
		- **(vi)** the craft complies with the requirements of section 24; and
	- **(e)** a craft that is underway, except in the case of an emergency.

- **(2)** For the purposes of subsection (1), a craft that is operating in the dynamically positioned mode and that complies with the requirements of section 24 is not considered to be underway.

- **(3)** A supervisor must not conduct a diving operation unless the person in charge of the craft or installation from which the diving operation is to be conducted has been notified of the proposed diving operation.




### Restricted Use of SCUBA


**40** A diving supervisor must not use or permit to be used SCUBA in a diving operation supervised by the supervisor unless
- **(a)** any other diving technique is impracticable or more hazardous to use;
- **(b)** the diving operation is conducted in water that is less than 20 m deep;
- **(c)** the diving operation can be completed without the need for decompression;
- **(d)** the diver using SCUBA is connected to a lifeline or, if the use of a lifeline is impracticable,
	- **(i)** the diver is in contact, visually or orally, with another diver who is in the water, securely connected to a lifeline and assisted by an attendant at the dive site, or
	- **(ii)** some other effective method of ensuring the diver’s safety is provided;
- **(e)** there is a practical means of communication between the supervisor and the diver using SCUBA and there is a means of oral communication between the supervisor and other personnel involved in the diving operation;
- **(f)** the diving crew for the duration of the diving operation includes a minimum of one supervisor, one diver, one stand-by diver and as many attendants as the supervisor considers necessary to ensure the safety of the divers involved in the diving operation; and
- **(g)** all applicable provisions of these Regulations are complied with.




### Restrictions Respecting Category I Diving Operations


**41** A diving supervisor must not conduct a category I diving operation, other than a diving operation in which SCUBA is used, unless
- **(a)** a suitable skip is used to transport the divers involved in the diving operation to an underwater work site that is 20 m or more in depth and, where practicable, to an underwater work site that is less than 20 m in depth;
- **(b)** an umbilical directly from the surface or via a skip is used to supply the appropriate breathing mixture to the divers involved in the dive that is part of the diving operation;
- **(c)** the supervisor is in oral communication with any divers, stand-by divers and attendants involved in the diving operation at all times during the diving operation;
- **(d)** the supervisor has a means of monitoring the depth of each diver involved in the diving operation and the pressure of the breathing mixture being supplied to each diver and stand-by diver involved in the dive;
- **(e)** each diver involved in the dive is securely connected to a lifeline; and
- **(f)** the diving crew, for the duration of the diving operation, includes one diving supervisor, one diver and a minimum of
	- **(i)** one stand-by diver equipped with an umbilical at least 3 m longer than the umbilical of the diver for whom the stand-by diver acts as stand-by,
	- **(ii)** one attendant at the dive site of the diving operation, and
	- **(iii)** as many additional attendants as the supervisor considers necessary to ensure the safety of the divers involved in the diving operation.




### Restrictions Respecting Category II Diving Operations


**42** A diving supervisor must not conduct a category II diving operation unless
- **(a)** the requirements referred to in paragraphs 41(c) to (e) are complied with;
- **(b)** a diving bell or diving submersible is used for any descent or ascent of a diver to or from the underwater work site of the diving operation;
- **(c)** the diving supervisor has a means of monitoring the internal pressure of any diving bell or surface compression chamber or the compression chamber of any diving submersible used in the diving operation; and
- **(d)** the diving crew, for the duration of the diving operation, includes one diving supervisor and a minimum of
	- **(i)** two divers who are in the diving bell or diving submersible used in the diving operation, one of whom is a stand-by diver equipped with an umbilical at least 3 m longer than the umbilical of the diver for whom the stand-by diver acts as stand-by,
	- **(ii)** one additional stand-by diver and one attendant at the dive site of the diving operation, and
	- **(iii)** as many additional attendants as the supervisor considers necessary to ensure the safety of the divers involved in the diving operation.




### Restrictions Respecting Category III Diving Operations


**43** 

- **(1)** A diving supervisor must not, in a saturation dive supervised by the supervisor, permit the total dive time of any diver involved in the dive to exceed 31 days.

- **(2)** A diving supervisor must not conduct a category III diving operation unless the diving crew, for the duration of the dive, includes the persons referred to in paragraph 42(d) and as many additional specialists and life-support technicians as the diving supervisor considers necessary to ensure the safety of the divers involved in the dive.




### Restriction Respecting Diving Supervisors


**44** A diving supervisor must not make a dive while supervising a diving operation, even in the case of an emergency.




### Additional Duties


**45** 

- **(1)** When a skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS used in a diving operation is being lowered into or raised from the water, the supervisor must ensure that the skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS, as the case may be, is continuously within the supervisor’s vision, either directly or by any other means.

- **(2)** When, in a diving operation, a diving bell is coupled with a surface compression chamber by means of a clamping mechanism, the supervisor may permit only a person who is familiar with the operational procedures designed for the clamping mechanism to operate that clamping mechanism.

- **(3)** When, in a diving operation, a person is transferred to or from a diving bell, the supervisor must ensure that any surface compression chambers used in the diving operation but not used in the transfer are, during the transfer, isolated from the surface compression chambers used in the transfer.

- **(4)** If a diver involved in a diving operation exhibits any unusual psychological or physiological symptoms or any severe symptoms of decompression sickness, the diving supervisor must advise the specialized diving doctor referred to in paragraph 3(3)(d) and the operator responsible for the diving operation of the symptoms and must supervise any therapeutic recompression or decompression of the diver.

- **(5)** A diving supervisor must take all reasonable precautions to ensure that, except in the event of the evacuation of a diver during a diving operation supervised by the diving supervisor,
	- **(a)** a diver involved in the diving operation who has completed a dive does not fly in an aircraft
		- **(i)** for 12 hours after a non-decompression dive,
		- **(ii)** for 24 hours after decompression, or
		- **(iii)** for any longer period that the diving supervisor considers necessary to ensure that the diver does not suffer decompression sickness; and
	- **(b)** a diver involved in the diving operation who has completed a saturation dive remains under observation in the general area of the decompression chamber for at least 24 hours after decompression or any longer period that is sufficient in the opinion of the diving supervisor to ensure the well-being of the diver.

- **(6)** A diving supervisor must take all reasonable precautions to ensure that, in the evacuation of a person during a diving operation supervised by the supervisor, a person involved in the diving operation who has completed decompression within the preceding 24 hours does not fly in an aircraft at an altitude greater than is operationally necessary in the circumstances.




### Diving Plant and Equipment


**46** 

- **(1)** A supervisor must not conduct a diving operation unless
	- **(a)** the diving plant and equipment referred to in paragraph 8(5)(h) meet the relevant requirements of sections 11 to 20, are available for use when required and, except for diving plant and equipment intended to be mobile during the diving operation, are, at all times during the diving operation, firmly secured to the craft or installation from which the diving operation is conducted; and
	- **(b)** any electrically operated diving plant and equipment that are used in the diving operation are suitable for the location in which they are to be used and are protected from hazards caused by water and environmental conditions.

- **(2)** A supervisor must not, in a diving operation supervised by the supervisor, use any diving plant and equipment in the diving operation unless
	- **(a)** the appropriate examinations and tests referred to in subsection 10(1) have been carried out on the diving plant and equipment and the certificates related to those examinations and tests have been inserted into or attached to the register referred to in subsection 10(3); and
	- **(b)** the supervisor has, not more than 24 hours before the use,
		- **(i)** examined the diving plant and equipment in accordance with the relevant provisions of the applicable procedures manual and found them to be in good working order, and
		- **(ii)** when appropriate, in addition to the examination referred to in subparagraph (i), tested for leaks any pump, compressor, cylinder or pipeline used in the diving operation to convey breathing mixture and found it free from leaks.

- **(3)** A diving supervisor must not conduct a dive unless a two-compartment compression chamber that is located in a readily accessible place on board the craft or installation from which the dive is conducted, except when the dive is conducted at a depth of 10 m or less, in which case the compression chamber may be located within one hour’s travelling time from the dive site,
	- **(a)** has been approved in accordance with section 4 for the diving program of which the dive is a part, to be used at a pressure that is not less than six atmospheres absolute or, if the maximum working pressure that may be encountered during the dive is greater than six atmospheres absolute, at the maximum pressure plus one atmosphere; and
	- **(b)** is suitable for the dive.




### Oxygen Supply Systems and Breathing Mixture Supply Systems


**47** 

- **(1)** A supervisor must not conduct a diving operation in which
	- **(a)** an oxygen supply system is used, unless the oxygen supply system meets the requirements set out in section 18;
	- **(b)** a breathing mixture supply system is used, unless the breathing mixture supply system meets the requirements set out in sections 19 and 20; and
	- **(c)** an analyzer is used to determine the relative levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide during any dive that is part of the diving operation, unless the analyzer is recalibrated in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions for the analyzer before the dive.

- **(2)** When an analyzer is used continuously in a diving operation to determine the relative levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide during any dive that is part of the diving operation, the supervisor must ensure that the analyzer is recalibrated in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions for the analyzer, where practicable, every two hours.

- **(3)** A diving supervisor must not, in a diving operation supervised by the supervisor, use or permit to be used an on-line gas blender or diver’s gas recovery system unless, at all times that the blender or recovery system is in use, the requirements of section 20 are complied with.




### Breathing Mixture


**48** 

- **(1)** A supervisor must not begin or continue a diving operation unless
	- **(a)** the total quantity of appropriate breathing mixture that is available at any time during the diving operation consists of the quantities set out in section 21;
	- **(b)** the purity of the breathing mixture is of an acceptable standard; and
	- **(c)** the quantities of breathing mixture referred to in subparagraphs 21(1)(a)(ii) and (iii) are available for immediate use at a flow rate, temperature and pressure that are safe for the user.

- **(2)** A supervisor must not permit a diver supervised by the supervisor to make a dive unless
	- **(a)** the total quantity of appropriate breathing mixture, including the reserve supply,
		- **(i)** carried by the diver is sufficient to enable the diver to reach a skip, diving bell or diving submersible used in connection with the dive, a reserve supply referred to in subparagraph 21(1)(a)(ii) or the surface, and
		- **(ii)** available to the diver’s stand-by diver for immediate use is sufficient to enable the stand-by diver to reach the diver and to enable the stand-by diver and the diver
			- **(A)** to carry out appropriate decompression procedures and return to the surface, or
			- **(B)** to return to the skip, diving bell or diving submersible used in connection with the dive and to carry out appropriate decompression procedures either in the skip, diving bell or diving submersible, as the case may be, or at the surface; and
	- **(b)** the supervisor has analyzed the breathing mixture for the accuracy of its oxygen content immediately before the dive.

- **(3)** A supervisor must not, in a diving operation supervised by the supervisor, use or permit to be used
	- **(a)** compressed air as a breathing mixture at water depths greater than 50 m or at pressures that are equivalent to the pressures of water depths greater than 50 m, except in the case of a category III dive; or
	- **(b)** pure oxygen as a breathing mixture, except for decompression or therapeutic purposes.

- **(4)** A supervisor must protect any breathing mixture to be used in a diving operation supervised by the supervisor from any likelihood of contamination.

- **(5)** If a diving supervisor becomes aware of any oil or other contaminant in waters in which a diving operation supervised by the supervisor is being conducted, the supervisor must take all necessary steps to avoid any contamination of any diver in the water and of the ambient atmosphere in any compression chamber used in the diving operation.




### Diving Operations Logbooks


**49** 

- **(1)** A supervisor must enter in the diving operations logbook referred to in paragraph 8(5)(m), for each diving operation or portion of a diving operation supervised by the supervisor,
	- **(a)** the date and the time the diving operation was begun and ended, including any time during which the diving operation was interrupted, or the date and the time the supervisor began the supervision and the time the supervision ended;
	- **(b)** the name of the diving contractor, if any, who conducted the diving operation;
	- **(c)** the name of the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the diving operation;
	- **(d)** the name or other designation and the location of the craft or installation from which, or other dive site at which, the diving operation was conducted;
	- **(e)** the identification number of any dive supervised during the diving operation or during the period of supervision referred to in paragraph (a);
	- **(f)** the name of the supervisor, the names of all other persons involved in the diving operation, including those who operated any diving plant and equipment used in the diving operation, the names of the persons consulted under paragraph 38(1)(a), the names of any other persons consulted in respect of the diving operation and the positions or titles of all the persons named;
	- **(g)** the procedures followed during the diving operation;
	- **(h)** the decompression table and the schedule in the decompression table that were used in the diving operation;
	- **(i)** the time at which any diver involved in the diving operation and any skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS used in the diving operation left the surface and returned to the surface;
	- **(j)** the maximum depth, bottom time, dive time and total dive time for each dive conducted during the period of supervision referred to in paragraph (a);
	- **(k)** the type of diving plant and equipment and the type of breathing mixture used in the diving operation;
	- **(l)** the type of discomfort, injury or illness, including decompression sickness, suffered by any person involved in the diving operation;
	- **(m)** the particulars of any environmental conditions that affected or might have affected the diving operation; and
	- **(n)** any other factor relevant to the safety or health of any person involved in the diving operation.

- **(2)** A supervisor must, after completion of an entry in the diving operations logbook in accordance with subsection (1), immediately sign the entry and request the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the diving operation to countersign the entry as soon as possible.

- **(3)** A person must not make any alteration to an entry in a diving operations logbook referred to in subsection (1) unless the alteration is initialled by the supervisor who made the entry and by the person who countersigned the entry.

- **(4)** When there is no space for further entries in a diving operations logbook for a diving operation, or when the diving operation is completed, whichever occurs first, the supervisor who made the last entry in the logbook must deliver the logbook to the diving contractor who conducted the diving operation, but in the event of an accident in connection with the diving operation, the supervisor on duty at the time of the accident must deliver the logbook to the operator responsible for the diving operation as soon as possible after the accident.




### Supervisor’s Logbooks


**50** 

- **(1)** A supervisor must keep a logbook that is permanently bound, has numbered pages and contains the name and signature of the supervisor and a photograph that is a likeness of the supervisor.

- **(2)** A supervisor must, as soon as possible after supervision of a dive or after supervision of a portion of a dive, enter in the logbook for each dive or portion of a dive supervised by the supervisor,
	- **(a)** the date of the dive;
	- **(b)** the name of the diving contractor, if any, who conducted the dive;
	- **(c)** the name of the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the diving operation;
	- **(d)** the name or other designation and location of the craft or installation from which, or other dive site at which, the dive was conducted;
	- **(e)** the dive identification number referred to in paragraph 49(1)(e);
	- **(f)** the name of each diver or pilot supervised;
	- **(g)** the maximum depth, bottom time and dive time of the dive;
	- **(h)** the decompression table and the schedule in the decompression table that were used in the dive;
	- **(i)** details of any medical care or advice given and the type of therapeutic treatment used, if any;
	- **(j)** any emergency in connection with the dive; and
	- **(k)** any other factor relevant to the safety or health of any person involved in the dive.

- **(3)** A supervisor must, after completion of an entry in the supervisor’s logbook in accordance with subsection (2), immediately sign the entry and request the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the dive to countersign the entry as soon as possible.

- **(4)** A person must not make any alteration to an entry in a supervisor’s logbook unless the alteration is initialled by the supervisor and by the person who countersigned the entry.

- **(5)** A supervisor must produce, on request, the supervisor’s logbook for inspection by the diving doctor who examines the supervisor for the purposes of these Regulations, at the time of the examination.

- **(6)** A supervisor must keep in the supervisor’s logbook referred to in subsection (1)
	- **(a)** the supervisor’s diving supervisor’s certificate or ADS supervisor’s certificate;
	- **(b)** the supervisor’s written appointment as a supervisor under subsection 8(3);
	- **(c)** any certificates or other evidence of qualification in addition to those referred to in paragraph (a); and
	- **(d)** any certificates or other evidence of medical examination received from a diving doctor.

- **(7)** A supervisor must retain the supervisor’s logbook referred to in subsection (1) for a period of not less than two years after the day on which the last entry is made in it.




### Keeping of Records


**51** 

- **(1)** When a person involved in a diving operation is in a compression chamber, the supervisor must keep a record or ensure that a record is kept, at regular intervals of not more than 30 minutes, of the time and depth gauge readings and of the main components of the atmosphere in the compression chamber, including
	- **(a)** the oxygen and carbon dioxide; and
	- **(b)** the temperature and humidity.

- **(2)** The supervisor must keep a copy of any certifications and inspections carried out on the diving plant and equipment used and must keep a record of
	- **(a)** the results of any analyses of any breathing mixture used;
	- **(b)** any scheduled and unscheduled maintenance performed on any component of the diving plant and equipment used; and
	- **(c)** the results of any readings taken under subsection (1).

- **(3)** On completion of a diving operation, the supervisor must deliver the records and copies kept under subsection (2) to the diving contractor who conducted the diving operation.

- **(4)** The supervisor must make a tape recording of all communications between the divers or the pilots involved in a dive that is part of the diving operation and the supervisor during the pre-dive system check and during the dive and must retain the tape recording for a minimum of 48 hours after the completion of the diving operation.




**PART 6** 
## Divers



### Category I Dives


**52** A person must not make a category I dive in a diving operation unless the person
- **(a)** is 18 years of age or older;
- **(b)** has been certified to be medically fit to dive by a diving doctor who has
	- **(i)** inspected the person’s diver’s logbook referred to in section 61,
	- **(ii)** examined the person not more than 12 months before the period during which the diving operation is to be conducted, and
	- **(iii)** recorded the results of the examination including, in the case of a person 35 years of age or older, the results of a stress ECG performance test on a treadmill or a bicycle, on a medical examination record in the form set out in Schedule 7 or in another form acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and on a diver’s medical certificate in the person’s diver’s logbook;
- **(c)** has delivered a copy of the diver’s medical certificate referred to in paragraph (b) to the diving contractor who conducts the diving operation;
- **(d)** holds
	- **(i)** a valid category I diving certificate issued under section 53 or 68,
	- **(ii)** during the first year in which the person makes category I dives in a diving operation, a valid document that is
		- **(A)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience referred to in paragraph 53(1)(a), and
		- **(B)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer,
	- **(iii)** a valid category II diving certificate issued under section 55 or 68 or a valid document referred to in paragraph 54(1)(b), or
	- **(iv)** a valid category III diving certificate issued under section 57 or 68 or a valid document referred to in paragraph 56(1)(b); and
- **(e)** has demonstrated to the supervisor that
	- **(i)** the person is capable of using, and has sufficient experience in the use of, the type of diving plant and equipment and breathing mixture to be used in the diving operation and is familiar with the relevant provisions of the procedures manual referred to in paragraph 3(4)(a) and the contingency plan referred to in paragraph 3(4)(g) to be followed in the diving operation, and
	- **(ii)** the person’s involvement in the diving operation is in no way contrary to any restriction inserted in the person’s diving certificate or attached to the document referred to in paragraph (d) under section 58.




### Category I Diving Certificates


**53** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue a category I diving certificate that is valid for one year to a person who has attained a standard of competence in category I diving that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who
	- **(a)** holds a first-aid certificate acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and has
		- **(i)** successfully completed, at a school, institution or company acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer, training in the theoretical and practical aspects of diving appropriate to category I diving, including
			- **(A)** the use of air as a breathing mixture,
			- **(B)** surface-oriented diving techniques and operational procedures,
			- **(C)** diving techniques and operational procedures for use with SCUBA,
			- **(D)** the use and operation of any diving plant and equipment, including hand-held tools,
			- **(E)** the use of communications systems,
			- **(F)** the use of decompression tables,
			- **(G)** emergency procedures, including hyperbaric first-aid techniques and the operation of surface compression chambers, and
			- **(H)** a thorough study of these Regulations, and
		- **(ii)** made at least 50 dives in various environmental conditions and locations and for various purposes with a bottom time totalling at least 50 hours, including
			- **(A)** at least 40 dives to depths of up to 20 m with a bottom time totalling at least 43 hours, of which at least 10 were dives to depths of between 15 m and 20 m with a bottom time totalling at least seven hours, and
			- **(B)** at least 10 dives to depths of between 20 m and 50 m with a bottom time totalling at least seven hours, of which at least three hours were at depths of between 40 m and 50 m and at least one hour was at a depth of at least 50 m;
	- **(b)** held a category I diving certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and who has made at least 28 dives with a bottom time totalling at least 24 hours during the 12 months before the application;
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board that their training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience described in paragraph (a); or
	- **(d)** holds a valid document referred to in paragraph 52(d).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of a category I diving certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has made at least 24 category I dives with a bottom time totalling at least 20 hours during the 12 months before the application.




### Category II Dives


**54** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), a person must not make a category II dive in a diving operation unless the person
	- **(a)** meets the criteria set out in paragraphs 52(a) to (c) and (e); and
	- **(b)** holds
		- **(i)** a valid category II diving certificate issued under section 55 or 68,
		- **(ii)** during the first year in which the person makes a category II dive in a diving operation, a valid document that is
			- **(A)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience referred to in paragraph 55(1)(a), and
			- **(B)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer, or
		- **(iii)** a valid category III diving certificate issued under section 57 or 68 or a valid document referred to in paragraph 56(1)(b).

- **(2)** A diver who holds a category I diving certificate may make a category II dive for training purposes in a diving operation if
	- **(a)** the diver is employed in a diving program on a full-time basis to make category I dives;
	- **(b)** the dive is authorized as a training dive by the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the diving operation and the person in charge of the craft or installation from which the dive will be conducted; and
	- **(c)** the diver makes the dive under the close supervision of a diver who holds a category II or category III diving certificate.




### Category II Diving Certificates


**55** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue a category II diving certificate that is valid for one year to a person who has attained a standard of competence in category II diving that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who
	- **(a)** has
		- **(i)** successfully completed, at a school, institution or company acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer, training in the theoretical and practical aspects of diving appropriate to category II diving, including
			- **(A)** the use of mixed gas as a breathing mixture,
			- **(B)** mixed gas diving techniques and operational procedures,
			- **(C)** the use and operation of any diving plant and equipment,
			- **(D)** any type of underwater work generally done by a diver,
			- **(E)** the use of communications systems,
			- **(F)** emergency procedures, including hyperbaric first-aid techniques and the operation of compression chambers, and
			- **(G)** a thorough study of these Regulations, and
		- **(ii)** been employed to make category I dives for at least the 12 months before the application and has made at least 60 dives in a diving bell or diving submersible with a bottom time totalling at least 20 hours, including at least 30 lock-out dives of which four were to a depth of more than 50 m, two were to a depth of more than 80 m and one was to a depth of 100 m or more, with a bottom time totalling at least 30 minutes per dive;
	- **(b)** held a category II diving certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and who has made at least 28 dives with a bottom time totalling at least 24 hours, including at least 10 category II dives with a bottom time totalling at least 10 hours, during the 12 months before the application;
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board that their training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience described in paragraph (a); or
	- **(d)** holds a valid document referred to in paragraph 54(1)(b).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of a category II diving certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has made at least 24 dives with a bottom time totalling at least 20 hours, including at least eight category II dives with a bottom time totalling at least eight hours, during the 12 months before the application.




### Category III Dives


**56** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), a person must not make a category III dive in a diving operation unless the person
	- **(a)** meets the criteria set out in paragraphs 52(a) to (c) and (e); and
	- **(b)** holds a valid category III diving certificate issued under section 57 or 68 or, during the first year in which the person makes a category III dive in a diving operation, a valid document that is
		- **(i)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience described in paragraph 57(1)(a), and
		- **(ii)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer.

- **(2)** A diver who holds a category II diving certificate may make a category III dive for training purposes in a diving operation if
	- **(a)** the diver is employed in a diving program on a full-time basis to make category II dives;
	- **(b)** the dive is authorized as a training dive by the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the diving operation and the person in charge of the craft or installation from which the dive will be conducted; and
	- **(c)** the diver makes the dive under the close supervision of a diver who holds a category III diving certificate.




### Category III Diving Certificates


**57** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue a category III diving certificate that is valid for one year to a person who has attained a standard of competence in category III diving that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who
	- **(a)** has
		- **(i)** successfully completed, at a school, institution or company acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer, training in the theoretical and practical aspects of diving appropriate to category III diving, including
			- **(A)** at least one saturation dive to a depth of not less than 75 m and, during the course of the saturation dive, at least two lock-out dives with a bottom time totalling at least 30 minutes per lock-out dive,
			- **(B)** saturation diving techniques and operational procedures,
			- **(C)** the use and operation of any diving plant and equipment,
			- **(D)** any type of underwater work generally done by a diver,
			- **(E)** emergency procedures relevant to saturation diving, including hyperbaric first-aid techniques and the operation of compression chambers, and
			- **(F)** a thorough study of these Regulations, and
		- **(ii)** been employed to make category II dives for at least the two years before the application and has made at least 24 category II dives;
	- **(b)** held a category III diving certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and who has made at least 28 dives with a bottom time totalling at least 32 hours, including at least 10 category II dives with a bottom time totalling at least 10 hours and at least one saturation dive, during the 12 months before the application;
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board that their training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience referred to in paragraph (a); or
	- **(d)** holds a valid document referred to in paragraph 56(1)(b).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of a category III diving certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has made at least 24 dives with a bottom time totalling at least 24 hours, including at least eight category II dives from a diving bell or diving submersible with a bottom time totalling at least eight hours and at least one saturation dive, during the 12 months before the application.




### Restrictions Respecting Diving Certificates and Equivalent Documents


**58** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may insert in a diving certificate issued under section 53, 55, 57 or 68, or attach to a document referred to in paragraph 52(d), 54(1)(b) or 56(1)(b), restrictions on diving by the holder of the certificate or document if the Chief Safety Officer considers the restrictions necessary for safety reasons.

- **(2)** If the Chief Safety Officer inserts a restriction in a certificate or attaches a restriction to a document under subsection (1), the Chief Safety Officer must give the holder of the certificate or document an opportunity to show cause why the restriction should not be inserted or attached.




### Invalidation of Diving Certificates


**59** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may invalidate a diving certificate issued under section 53, 55, 57 or 68 if, in the opinion of the Chief Safety Officer, the holder of the certificate has become incompetent or incapacitated.

- **(2)** If the Chief Safety Officer proposes to invalidate a diving certificate under subsection (1), the Chief Safety Officer must give the holder of the certificate at least 30 days’ notice in writing setting out the reasons for the proposed invalidation and must give the holder an opportunity to show cause why the certificate should not be invalidated.




### Diver’s Duties


**60** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), a diver must not make a dive in a diving operation unless
	- **(a)** before the dive, the diver has
		- **(i)** checked the diver’s personal diving equipment and is satisfied that the equipment is in good working order, and
		- **(ii)** reported to the supervisor any remedies, treatments, pharmaceuticals, intoxicants or drugs taken by the diver within the 48 hours before the dive, any injury or illness experienced by the diver since the diver’s most recent dive and any restrictions imposed by a diving doctor as a result of the diving doctor’s examination of the diver after an injury or illness;
	- **(b)** in the case of a diver who has experienced an injury or illness other than decompression sickness since the diver’s most recent dive, the diver has received approval for further diving from a diving doctor or a hyperbaric first-aid technician who consulted with a diving doctor concerning the injury or illness;
	- **(c)** in the case of a diver who has experienced decompression sickness type I, at least two days have elapsed since the diver successfully completed recompression therapy;
	- **(d)** in the case of a diver who has experienced decompression sickness type II, at least five days have elapsed since the diver successfully completed recompression therapy and the diver has received approval for further diving from a diving doctor; and
	- **(e)** in the case of a diver who has experienced decompression sickness type I in two consecutive dives, the diver has received approval for further diving from a diving doctor.

- **(2)** A diver must not make a saturation dive unless
	- **(a)** in the case of a diver whose most recent dive was a saturation dive of 14 days’ duration or less, at least 14 days have elapsed since the diver completed decompression; and
	- **(b)** in the case of a diver whose most recent dive was a saturation dive of more than 14 days’ duration, at least 28 days have elapsed since the diver completed decompression.

- **(3)** When a diver who is employed in a diving operation believes the diver is unfit or unable to dive at any time during that employment, the diver must so inform the supervisor and must give the reason for that belief.

- **(4)** If a diver becomes aware of any oil or other contaminant in waters in which a diving operation is being conducted, the diver must immediately inform the supervisor of the contaminant.




### Diver’s Logbooks


**61** 

- **(1)** A diver must keep a logbook that is permanently bound, has numbered pages and contains the name and signature of the diver and a photograph that is a likeness of the diver.

- **(2)** A diver must, as soon as possible after making a dive, enter in the diver’s logbook referred to in subsection (1), for each dive made by the diver,
	- **(a)** the date of the dive;
	- **(b)** the name of the diving contractor, if any, who conducted the dive;
	- **(c)** the name of the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the dive;
	- **(d)** the name or other designation and the location of the craft or installation from which, or other dive site at which, the dive was conducted;
	- **(e)** the dive identification number referred to in paragraph 49(1)(e);
	- **(f)** the name of the supervisor of the dive;
	- **(g)** the maximum depth, the bottom time and the total dive time of the dive;
	- **(h)** the decompression table and the schedule in the decompression table that were used in the dive;
	- **(i)** the decompression procedures followed by the diver;
	- **(j)** the type of personal diving equipment used by the diver;
	- **(k)** any injury suffered by the diver during the dive;
	- **(l)** the work performed by the diver;
	- **(m)** a description of any discomfort or illness, including decompression sickness, suffered by the diver; and
	- **(n)** any other factor relevant to the safety or health of the diver.

- **(3)** A diver must, after completion of an entry in the diver’s logbook in accordance with subsection (2), immediately sign the entry and request the supervisor to countersign the entry as soon as possible.

- **(4)** A person must not make any alteration to an entry in a diver’s logbook referred to in subsection (1) unless the alteration is initialled by the diver and by the supervisor who countersigned the entry.

- **(5)** A diver must produce, on request, the diver’s logbook referred to in subsection (1) for inspection by the diving doctor who examines the diver for the purposes of these Regulations, at the time of the examination.

- **(6)** A diver must keep in the diver’s logbook referred to in subsection (1)
	- **(a)** the diver’s diving certificate or equivalent document;
	- **(b)** any certificates or other evidence of qualification in addition to those referred to in paragraph (a); and
	- **(c)** any certificates or other evidence of medical examination received from a diving doctor.

- **(7)** A diver must retain the diver’s logbook referred to in subsection (1) for a period of not less than two years after the day on which the last entry is made in it.




**PART 7** 
## Pilots



### ADS Dives


**62** A person must not pilot an ADS in a diving operation unless the person
- **(a)** is 18 years of age or older;
- **(b)** has been certified to be medically fit
	- **(i)** to dive, in accordance with paragraph 52(b), or
	- **(ii)** to pilot an ADS, by a medical doctor who has examined the person not more than 12 months before the day on which the diving operation is to be conducted and who has recorded the results of the examination on a medical examination record in the form set out in Schedule 5 or in another form acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and on a pilot’s medical certificate in that person’s pilot’s logbook referred to in section 66;
- **(c)** has delivered a copy of the medical certificate referred to in paragraph 52(b), or the medical certificate referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii), to the diving contractor who conducts the diving operation;
- **(d)** holds a valid pilot’s certificate issued under section 63 or 68, or a valid document that is
	- **(i)** issued on the basis of training and experience that are equivalent to the training and experience referred to in paragraph 63(1)(a), and
	- **(ii)** acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer; and
- **(e)** has demonstrated to the supervisor that
	- **(i)** the person is capable of using, and has sufficient experience in the use of, the type of ADS and associated equipment to be used in the diving operation and is familiar with the relevant provisions of the procedures manual referred to in paragraph 3(4)(a) and the contingency plan referred to in paragraph 3(4)(g) to be followed in the diving operation, and
	- **(ii)** the person’s involvement in the diving operation is in no way contrary to any restriction inserted in the person’s pilot’s certificate or attached to the person’s document referred to in paragraph (d) under section 64.




### Pilot’s Certificates


**63** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue a pilot’s certificate that is valid for one year to a person who has attained a standard of competence in the operation of an ADS that is acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who
	- **(a)** has successfully completed at least 40 hours of technical training in the design, construction, use and maintenance of an ADS at a school, institution or company acceptable to the Chief Safety Officer and who has made at least 25 ADS dives under various conditions with a bottom time totalling at least 40 hours;
	- **(b)** held a pilot’s certificate that was issued under this subsection but that is no longer valid because it was not renewed under subsection (2) and who has made at least six ADS dives with a bottom time totalling at least 20 hours to an average depth of at least 20 m during the 12 months before the application;
	- **(c)** has demonstrated to the Board their person’s training and experience are equivalent to the training and experience described in paragraph (a); or
	- **(d)** holds a valid document referred to in paragraph 62(d).

- **(2)** The Chief Safety Officer may, on application by the holder of a pilot’s certificate issued under subsection (1), renew the certificate for a period of one year if the holder of the certificate has made at least four ADS dives with a dive time totalling at least 16 hours during the 12 months before the application.




### Restrictions Respecting Pilot’s Certificates and Equivalent Documents


**64** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may insert in a pilot’s certificate issued under section 63 or 68, or attach to a document referred to in paragraph 62(d), restrictions on the piloting of an ADS by the holder of the certificate or document if the Chief Safety Officer considers the restrictions necessary for safety reasons.

- **(2)** If the Chief Safety Officer inserts a restriction in a certificate or attaches a restriction to a document under subsection (1), the Chief Safety Officer must give the holder of the certificate or document an opportunity to show cause why the restriction should not be so inserted or attached.




### Invalidation of Pilot’s Certificates


**65** 

- **(1)** The Chief Safety Officer may invalidate a pilot’s certificate issued under section 63 or 68 if, in the opinion of the Chief Safety Officer, the holder of the certificate has become incompetent or incapacitated.

- **(2)** If the Chief Safety Officer proposes to invalidate a pilot’s certificate under subsection (1), the Chief Safety Officer must give the holder of the certificate at least 30 days’ notice in writing setting out the reasons for the proposed invalidation and must give the holder an opportunity to show cause why the certificate should not be invalidated.




### Pilot’s Logbooks


**66** 

- **(1)** A pilot must keep a logbook that is permanently bound, has numbered pages and contains the name and signature of the pilot and a photograph that is a likeness of the pilot.

- **(2)** A pilot must, as soon as possible after making a dive, enter in the pilot’s logbook referred to in subsection (1), for each dive made by the pilot,
	- **(a)** the date of the dive;
	- **(b)** the name of the diving contractor, if any, who conducted the dive;
	- **(c)** the name of the operator or the operator’s representative responsible for the dive;
	- **(d)** the name or other designation and the location of the craft or installation from which, or other dive site at which, the dive was conducted;
	- **(e)** the dive identification number referred to in paragraph 49(1)(e);
	- **(f)** the name of the ADS supervisor who supervised the dive;
	- **(g)** the maximum depth, the bottom time and the total dive time of the dive;
	- **(h)** the work performed by the pilot;
	- **(i)** a description of any discomfort, injury or illness suffered by the pilot; and
	- **(j)** any other factor relevant to the safety or health of the pilot.

- **(3)** A pilot must, after completion of an entry in the pilot’s logbook in accordance with subsection (2), immediately sign the entry and request the ADS supervisor who supervised the dive to countersign the entry as soon as possible.

- **(4)** A person must not make any alteration to an entry in a pilot’s logbook referred to in subsection (1) unless the alteration is initialled by the pilot and by the ADS supervisor who countersigned the entry.

- **(5)** A pilot must produce, on request, the pilot’s logbook referred to in subsection (1) for inspection by the diving doctor or medical doctor who examines the pilot for the purposes of these Regulations, at the time of the examination.

- **(6)** A pilot must keep in the pilot’s logbook referred to in subsection (1)
	- **(a)** the pilot’s certificate or equivalent document;
	- **(b)** any certificates or other evidence of qualification in addition to those referred to in paragraph (a); and
	- **(c)** any certificates or other evidence of medical examination received from a diving doctor or medical doctor.

- **(7)** A pilot must retain the pilot’s logbook referred to in subsection (1) for a period of not less than two years after the day on which the last entry is made in it.




**PART 8** 
## Additional Provisions



### Persons Who Have First-aid or Medical Training


**67** 

- **(1)** A specialized diving doctor who is involved in a diving operation must not assume responsibility for any aspect of the diving operation other than the medical aspect.

- **(2)** A person who has first-aid or medical training and who is employed in a diving operation must report, without delay, to the supervisor any medical consultation that the person had involving a diver or pilot employed in the diving operation and any medical advice or treatment that the person provided to the diver or pilot.




### Permanent Certificates


**68** 

- **(1)** When a person holds a certificate issued by the Chief Safety Officer under section 27, 29, 31, 33, 53, 55, 57 or 63 or a valid document that has been accepted by the Chief Safety Officer under paragraph 26(c), 28(c), 30(c), 32(d), 33(1)(a), 52(d), 54(1)(b), 56(1)(b) or 62(d) and has held the certificate or document for at least five years, the Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue to the person a certificate for the same category as the certificate or document that is held, and that certificate is to be valid, subject to section 35, 59 or 65, as applicable, for as long as the person is certified to be medically fit in accordance with paragraph 26(b), 52(b) or 62(b), as applicable.

- **(2)** If a person satisfies the Chief Safety Officer that, for at least the five-year period before the date of making an application under this subsection, the person would have qualified for a certificate under these Regulations if the person had applied for one, the Chief Safety Officer may, on application, issue to the person a certificate for the same category as the certificate that the person would have qualified for, and that certificate is to be valid, subject to section 35, 59 or 65, as applicable, for as long as the person is certified to be medically fit in accordance with paragraph 26(b), 52(b) or 62(b), as applicable.




### Offences


**69** Any contravention of any of sections 5, 6, 8 to 26, 28, 30, 32, 36 to 52, 54, 56, 60 to 62, 66 and 67 is an offence under the Act.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Paragraph 3(4)(a))**
## Procedures
**1** The procedures manual for a diving program must contain the standard operating procedures to be followed in any diving operation that will be part of the diving program and must include
- **(a)** the procedures for any consultations with the person in charge of any craft or installation from which the diving operation is conducted;
- **(b)** the procedures to be followed by each person involved in a dive that will be part of the diving program, including a diver, stand-by diver, pilot, attendant and supervisor;
- **(c)** for each depth and each type of dive, the procedures for
	- **(i)** conducting the dive, taking into account
		- **(A)** local meteorological and sea-state conditions, and
		- **(B)** hazards such as strong currents, man-made structures and activities, other than diving, being conducted in the vicinity,
	- **(ii)** the selection of the appropriate breathing mixture, decompression tables and treatment tables to be used in the dive,
	- **(iii)** the use, inspection and maintenance of the diving plant and equipment, including communications and signalling equipment, to be used in the dive,
	- **(iv)** the lowering and recovering of a diver and the launching and recovery of any skip, diving bell, diving submersible or ADS to be used in the dive,
	- **(v)** the completion of the diving operations logbook referred to in paragraph 8(5)(m) and subsection 49(1), including sample entries, and
	- **(vi)** the making of a decision to begin, continue, interrupt or end the dive, including any conditions to be taken into account in the determination; and
- **(d)** a sample of the pre-dive checklist to be followed.





### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Paragraph 3(4)(g))**
## Emergency Procedures
**1** 

- **(1)** The contingency plan for a diving program must contain the emergency procedures to be followed in circumstances that are likely to endanger a diver or a pilot and that make it impossible and unsafe to follow the procedures contained in the procedures manual for the diving program, including circumstances such as
	- **(a)** deteriorating environmental conditions;
	- **(b)** unexpected weather or sea-state conditions;
	- **(c)** the inability of a craft to maintain itself at the location of the dive site;
	- **(d)** the evacuation of a craft or installation;
	- **(e)** the evacuation of the divers under pressures greater than atmospheric pressure;
	- **(f)** in-water emergency transfers;
	- **(g)** the failure of any major component of any diving plant and equipment; and
	- **(h)** the fouling of equipment below the surface that impairs the ability of a diver or pilot to complete a dive.

- **(2)** The emergency procedures referred to in subsection (1) must include procedures for
	- **(a)** emergency signalling between divers involved in the diving program and between the divers and their attendants using umbilicals or other suitable methods;
	- **(b)** the provision of stand-by divers;
	- **(c)** the provision of crafts, stand-by boats and any other devices to be used for rescue;
	- **(d)** the provision of first-aid treatment and therapeutic decompression;
	- **(e)** the use of the evacuation, rescue and treatment facilities and devices referred to in section 22 to be used in the diving program;
	- **(f)** contacting the evacuation, rescue and treatment facilities and devices referred to in section 22 and the medical services referred to in paragraph 23(b) that will be used in the diving program;
	- **(g)** the operation of the emergency power supply;
	- **(h)** the evacuation of a craft or installation used in the diving program;
	- **(i)** the evacuation of divers under pressures greater than atmospheric pressure; and
	- **(j)** in-water emergency transfers.





### **SCHEDULE 3** 
**(Paragraphs 5(1)(i) and (j))**
## Diving Accident/Incident Report
Name of craft or installation:


Operator:


Supervisor:


Diving contractor:


Persons involved:


Date:


Type of dive:


Purpose of dive:


Personal diving equipment used:


Diving plant and equipment used:


Dive profile:


Depth:  Bottom time: 


Time left surface: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Tables used: 


Ascent method:


Ascent rate & time:  Time returned to surface: 


Name of specialized diving doctor or medical attendant who treated diver or pilot:


Treatment:


Name of diver or pilot treated:


Treatment table used:


Diver’s or pilot’s medical condition after treatment:


Number of dives made by diver or pilot in the 24 hours before accident/incident:


Gas mixture(s) used:

(in dive)



(in treatment)




Air temperature: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Wind speed: 


Sea state: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Type of sea bed: 


Visibility:


Condition of personal diving equipment after accident/incident:


Personal diving equipment examined:


at:


____________________
(location and date)




by:


____________________
(name of examinator)




Summary of accident/incident:

(Use additional sheets as necessary.)




Signature of operator or operator’s representative


Signature of supervisor





### **SCHEDULE 4** 
**(Paragraph 11(2)(b))**
#### PART 1
<table>
<h4>First Aid Supplies for a Diving Operation</h4>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Supplies</th>
<th>Details</th>
<th>Quantity</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Tourniquets</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Scissors</td>
<td>Mayo, 17.8 cm</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Shell Dressings</td>
<td>Large</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Surgical Gloves</td>
<td>Pairs of sizes 8, 9 & 10</td>
<td>2 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Gauze Bandage</td>
<td>Sterile, 5 cm and 7.5 cm, roll</td>
<td>1 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Gauze Sponges</td>
<td>Sterile, 10 cm x 10 cm, pack of 100</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Adhesive Plaster</td>
<td>Roll</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Scalpels</td>
<td>Disposable, No. 10 & 11 blades</td>
<td>1 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Scalpel Blades</td>
<td>No. 10 & 11</td>
<td>2 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Laryngoscope</td>
<td>Large adult blade, with spare batteries & bulb</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Mouth Gag</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Mouth-to-Mouth Resuscitation Tube</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Oropharyngeal Airways</td>
<td>Sizes 3 & 4</td>
<td>1 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Suction Apparatus</td>
<td>Non-electric (e.g., Ambu foot-operated)</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Minor Surgical Tray</td>
<td>Ribbon retractor</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Army-Navy retractor</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rake retractor, sharp</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rake retractor, blunt</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lahey</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mosquito hemostat</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Towel clips</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**Pack, sterile, containing:**</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Needle driver</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Self-retaining retractor, blunt</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Allis</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Babcock</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sponge forceps</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Scissors, straight Mayo</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Scissors, curved Mayo</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Scissors, curved Metz</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Artery (hemostat)</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kockers</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Russian forceps</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Knife handle No. 3</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Knife handle No. 4</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Forceps, toothed</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Suction</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Dressing Tray</td>
<td>**Sterile, containing:**</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Small cup</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Combine pad</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gauze 10 cm x 10 cm</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gauze 5 cm x 5 cm</td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dressing towel</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Artery forceps</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Tissue forceps</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Intravenous-Giving Sets</td>
<td>e.g., Travenol 2C2027 blood administration set</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Intravenous Cannulae</td>
<td>Gauges 14, 15 & 16</td>
<td>2 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Intravenous Cannula</td>
<td>Gauge 16, 20 cm, for central venous placement</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>Alcohol Injection Swabs</td>
<td>e.g., Webcol</td>
<td>24</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>21</td>
<td>Trochar Cannulae</td>
<td>e.g., Argyle, No. 10, 23 cm</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>22</td>
<td>Heimlich Chest Drain Valves</td>
<td>e.g., Bard Parker No. 3460</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>23</td>
<td>Syringes</td>
<td>10 mL</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>24</td>
<td>Syringes</td>
<td>20 mL</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>25</td>
<td>Needles, Hypodermic</td>
<td>Gauges 16, 21 & 23</td>
<td>6 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>26</td>
<td>Foley Bladder Catheter</td>
<td>14 & 16 French gauges</td>
<td>1 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>27</td>
<td>Urinary Drainage Bag</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>28</td>
<td>Endotracheal Tubes</td>
<td>Cuffed, 7 mm, 8 mm, 9 mm & 9.5 mm</td>
<td>1 each</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>29</td>
<td>Wire Introducer</td>
<td>For use with endotracheal tubes</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>30</td>
<td>Suction Catheters</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>31</td>
<td>Blood Tubes (not vacutainers)</td>
<td>Silicone coated, no additive</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>32</td>
<td>Blood Tubes (not vacutainers)</td>
<td>Non-silicone coated, EDTA</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>33</td>
<td>Resuscitator Bag</td>
<td>Laerdal, with 100% 0<sub>2</sub> fitting and fitting for connection to BIBS</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>34</td>
<td>Xylocaine</td>
<td>1%, without epinephrine, 10 mL</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>35</td>
<td>Xylocaine Gel</td>
<td>Urethral, 2% tube</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>36</td>
<td>Bridine Solution</td>
<td>100 mL, for skin prep</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>37</td>
<td>Dextran 70 (Macrodex) in Saline</td>
<td>500 mL</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>38</td>
<td>Dextrose 5% Saline</td>
<td>1000 mL, bag of</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>39</td>
<td>Saline 0.9%</td>
<td>1000 mL, bag of</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>40</td>
<td>Heparin Injection</td>
<td>500 µ/mL, 2 mL vial</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>Diazepam Injection</td>
<td>10 mg, 2 mL vial</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>42</td>
<td>Benadryl Injection</td>
<td>50 mg, 1 mL vial</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>43</td>
<td>Furosemide Injection</td>
<td>40 mg, 2 mL vial</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>44</td>
<td>Dexamethasone Injection</td>
<td>4 mg, 10 mL vial</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>45</td>
<td>Aspirin Tablets</td>
<td>324 mg</td>
<td>50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>46</td>
<td>Thermometer, Electronic</td>
<td>Thermocouple or thermistor</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>47</td>
<td>Stethoscope</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>48</td>
<td>Auriscope</td>
<td>With spare batteries & bulb</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>49</td>
<td>Reflex Hammer</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>50</td>
<td>Band Aids</td>
<td>Box</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>51</td>
<td>Aneroid Sphygmomanometer</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>52</td>
<td>Flashlight</td>
<td>With spare batteries & bulb</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>53</td>
<td>Sutures</td>
<td>Silk, 3/0 on curved cutting needle</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>54</td>
<td>Sutures</td>
<td>Silk, 0/0 on heavy curved needle</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>55</td>
<td>Sutures</td>
<td>Chromic catgut, 2/0 on curved taper needle</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>56</td>
<td>Sutures</td>
<td>Chromic catgut, 0/0 on curved taper needle</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>57</td>
<td>Ties</td>
<td>Silk, 0/0</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>58</td>
<td>Ties</td>
<td>Silk, 2/0</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>59</td>
<td>Ties</td>
<td>Silk, 3/0</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### PART 2
<table>
<h4>First Aid Supplies to Be Kept in a Diving Bell or in the Compression Chamber of a Diving Submersible</h4>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Supplies</th>
<th>Details</th>
<th>Quantity</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Tourniquet</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Mouth-to-Mouth Resuscitation Tube</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Mouth Gag</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Oropharyngeal Airways</td>
<td>—</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Adhesive Plaster</td>
<td>Roll</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Band Aids</td>
<td>Assorted sizes, flat, box</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Shell Dressings</td>
<td>Large</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Shell Dressings</td>
<td>Small</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Scissors</td>
<td>Mayo, 17.8 cm</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE 5** 
**(Subparagraphs 26(b)(ii) and 62(b)(ii))**
## Supervisor’s or Ads Pilot’s Medical Examination Record

## Part 1 — To Be Completed by the Physician.

Record all abnormal findings on this medical examination record. Circle the correct answer as required.


Family name :&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; First name(s): &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Birth date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sex: M/F


Ht: _________________________ cm Wt: _________________________ kg   Identifying features:


General appearance:


HEENT:  Normal?  Yes/No   Normal colour vision? Yes/No


Audiometry:   Rt. Normal? Yes/No   Lt. Normal? Yes/No


<table>
<tr>
<th>VISION:</th>
<th>Distant</th>
<th>Distant with glasses</th>
<th>Near</th>
<th>Near with glasses</th>
<th>Normal visual fields?</th>
<th>Normal Fundi?</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Right:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>YES/NO</td>
<td>YES/NO</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Left:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>YES/NO</td>
<td>YES/NO</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Both:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>YES/NO</td>
<td>YES/NO</td>
</tr>
</table>

SKIN:   Rash? Yes/No   Infection? Yes/No   Parasites? Yes/No   Lymph glands normal? Yes/No   Breasts normal? Yes/No


RESP:   Any chest scars or deformity? Yes/No   Chest auscultation normal? Yes/No   Any adventitious sounds? Yes/No   Current chest X-ray normal? Yes/No/Not Done<sup><a href='#star_e2'>[*]</a></sup>

<a name='star_e2'><sup>*</sup></a>: At the discretion of the examining doctor<br />


CARDIOVASCULAR:   BP:   /  Pulse:   / min.   Peripheral pulses and circulation normal?  Yes/No   Normal apex beat? Yes/No   Normal heart sounds? Yes/No   Murmurs present? Yes/No   ECG normal? Yes/No   Exercise tolerance test (e.g., Ruffier test) normal? Yes/No


ABDOMEN:   Organomegaly? Yes/No   Masses present? Yes/No   Herniae present? Yes/No   Genitourinary system normal? Yes/No   Rectal normal? Yes/No


MUSCULO-SKELETAL:   Spine normal? Yes/No   Limbs & joints normal? Yes/No


CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM:   Power & tone of limbs normal? Yes/No   Normal sensation to pinprick? Yes/No   Light touch? Yes/No   Temperature? Yes/No   Vibration? Yes/No   Proprioception normal? Yes/No   Cranial nerves normal? Yes/No


<table>
<tr>
<th>REFLEXES:</th>
<th>BJ</th>
<th>TJ</th>
<th>SJ</th>
<th>KJ</th>
<th>AJ</th>
<th>Abdo.</th>
<th>Plantar</th>
<th>Clonus</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Right:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Left:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

Cerebellar function normal? Yes/No   Vestibular function normal? Yes/No   Rombergism present? Yes/No   Nystagmus present? Yes/No


LAB. INVESTIGATIONS:   Hb: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;g/dL &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;HCT: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup><a href='#star_e2'>[*]</a></sup>Sickle cell trait absent? Yes/No<sup><a href='#star_e2'>[*]</a></sup> (initial medical examination)


Blood group: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; BUN: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup><a href='#star_e2'>[*]</a></sup>Creatinine: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup><a href='#star_e2'>[*]</a></sup>Other


Urine PH: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Urine presence of:   albumin? Yes/No   sugar? Yes/No   protein? Yes/No   blood? Yes/No


Comment on any abnormalities detected:
<table>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate free from physical defect and disease?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Has the candidate the physique for prolonged exertion?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate fit for work in all climates if inoculations are up-to-date?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate permanently unfit to dive?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate temporarily unfit to dive?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Date for next examination:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate fit to dive with restrictions?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Specify:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Name and address of examining doctor:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Signed: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Place: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
</table>




## Part 2 — To Be Completed in Ink by the Supervisor or Ads Pilot, as the Case May Be.

Circle the correct answer as required. If in doubt, ask the advice of the examining doctor


**(a)** Family name: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; First name(s): &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Birth date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; S.I.N.: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provincial Health No.: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;


**(b)** Have you had an ADS pilot’s medical examination before? Yes/No&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If yes, when? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Where?


**(c)** Date and place of any X-ray examinations:


**(d)** Give details of vaccinations:


**(e)** Do you have, or have you ever had or been treated for, any of the following medical conditions?

**1** AsthmaYes/No



**2** Hay fever or allergiesYes/No



**3** Allergy to drugs/medicationsYes/No



**4** Pneumonia or pleurisyYes/No



**5** Bronchitis or other lung diseasesYes/No



**6** TuberculosisYes/No



**7** Sinus troubleYes/No



**8** Ear diseaseYes/No



**9** High blood pressureYes/No



**10** Rheumatic feverYes/No



**11** Heart disease or murmurYes/No



**12** Chest pain or palpitationsYes/No



**13** Bleeding tendencyYes/No



**14** Skin diseasesYes/No



**15** DiabetesYes/No



**16** Tropical diseasesYes/No



**17** Fits, blackouts or epilepsyYes/No



**18** Dizziness, loss of balanceYes/No



**19** Head injury or concussionYes/No



**20** Stroke or paralysisYes/No



**21** Severe headache or migraineYes/No



**22** Nervous breakdown or mental illnessesYes/No



**23** Eye disordersYes/No



**24** Stomach/duodenal/peptic ulcerYes/No



**25** Gall bladder disorderYes/No



**26** Diarrhea or bowel diseaseYes/No



**27** Jaundice or hepatitisYes/No



**28** Kidney or bladder diseaseYes/No



**29** Bone/joint disease or injuryYes/No



**30** Back injury or chronic back painYes/No



**31** Other serious illness or injuryYes/No



**32** Motion sicknessYes/No



**33** Varicose veinsYes/No




Give details of any positive answers, including dates:


**(f)** Give date and place of any hospital admissions or operations:


**(g)** Have you been under medical treatment during the past year? Yes/No&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If yes, for what?


**(h)** Are you taking, or have you ever taken, any medicines or drugs? Yes/No&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If yes, specify:


**(i)** If you smoke, how many cigarettes do you smoke? _____/day If you drink alcohol, how many glasses of wine ____/week, of beer ____/week and of spirits ____/week do you drink?  Have you ever suffered from any health problems related to mind-altering, “street” or addictive drugs? Yes/No   If yes, give details:


I (name), &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, of (address) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, declare that all of the above information is true to the best of my knowledge and I give my permission for this information to be communicated to other doctors concerned with my health.


Signed: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Place: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;



## Part 3 — Physician’s Statement

Doctor’s remarks:


Candidate’s logbook inspected? Yes/No


If “no”, state reason:


Signed: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;M.D.


Date:





### **SCHEDULE 6** 
**(Subparagraphs 27(1)(a)(iii), 29(1)(a)(iii) and 31(1)(a)(iii))**
## Recommendation for Category — Diving Supervisor’s Certificate
This is to certify that &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, born on &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; at &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, presently working for &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, as a category &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, is familiar with all the aspects of diving practice and supervision of that category &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, as specified under the Nova Scotia Offshore Area Diving Operations Safety Transitional Regulations. Therefore, we, the undersigned, have no hesitation in recommending this applicant as a category &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; diving supervisor and, to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that we know the applicant sufficiently and that we are not aware of any reason why the applicant should not be granted the above-mentioned status.


<table>
<tr>
<td>**1** Diving supervisor:


____________________
(please print name)



Signature:

</td>
<td>Category:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From:


____________________
(Date)



Date:

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**2** Diving supervisor:


____________________
(please print name)



Signature:

</td>
<td>Category:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;From:


____________________
(Date)



Date:

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**3** Diving contractor or operator:

(please print name)



</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Signature:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Date:</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE 7** 
**(Subparagraph 52(b)(iii))**
## Diver’s Medical Examination Record

## Part 1 — To Be Completed by the Physician.

Record all abnormal findings on this medical examination record. Circle the correct answer as required.


Family name: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; First name(s): &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Birth date &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sex: M/F


Ht: _________________________ cm Wt: _________________________ kg   Identifying features:


General appearance:


HEENT: Normal? Yes/No   URTI: Normal?  Yes/No   Teeth & gums normal? Yes/No   Any dentures? Yes/No   Neck normal? Yes/No


Sinuses normal? Yes/No   Dental X-rays normal?  Yes/No/Not done<sup><a href='#star_e'>[*]</a></sup>   Normal colour vision? Yes/No


<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Nasal airway</th>
<th>EAM</th>
<th>Eardrums</th>
<th>Eustacian tube</th>
<th>Audiometry</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rt. normal?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lt. normal?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<th>VISION:</th>
<th>Distant</th>
<th>Distant with glasses</th>
<th>Near</th>
<th>Near with glasses</th>
<th>Normal visual fields?</th>
<th>Normal Fundi?</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Right:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Left:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Both:</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
</table>

SKIN:   Rash? Yes/No   Infection? Yes/No   Parasites? Yes/No   Lymph glands normal? Yes/No   Skinfold thickness:  Lt. biceps: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; mm   Lt. triceps: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; mm   Lt. subscapular: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; mm   Lt. sacroiliac: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; mm   Breasts normal? Yes/No


RESP:   Any chest scars or deformity? Yes/No   Chest auscultation normal? Yes/No   Any adventitious sounds? Yes/No   Current chest X-ray normal? Yes/No   FVC: FEV<sub>1</sub>/FVC%: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;%


CARDIOVASCULAR:   BP:    /  Pulse:    /  min.   Varicose veins? Yes/No   Peripheral pulses and circulation normal? Yes/No   Normal apex beat?  Yes/No   Normal heart sounds? Yes/No   Murmurs present? Yes/No   ECG normal? Yes/No   Exercise tolerance test (e.g., Ruffier test) normal? Yes/No   Stress ECG normal?  Yes/No/Not done<sup><a href='#plus_e'>[+]</a></sup>

<a name='plus_e'><sup>+</sup></a>: Mandatory for divers over 35 years of age<br />


ABDOMEN:   Organomegaly? Yes/No   Masses present? Yes/No   Herniae present? Yes/No   Genitourinary system normal? Yes/No   Rectal normal? Yes/No


MUSCULO-SKELETAL:   Joint X-rays:<sup><a href='#star_e'>[*]</a></sup>

<a name='star_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: At the discretion of the examining doctor<br />


<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Shoulders</th>
<th>Hip</th>
<th>Knees</th>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rt. normal?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Spine normal? Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lt. normal?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Limbs & joints normal? Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM:   Power & tone of limbs normal? Yes/No   Normal sensation to pinprick? Yes/No


Cranial nerves normal?


**1** Yes/No


**2** Yes/No


**3** Yes/No


**4** Yes/No


**5** Yes/No


**6** Yes/No


**7** Yes/No


**8** Yes/No


**9** Yes/No


**10** Yes/No


**11** Yes/No


**12** Yes/No


<table>
<tr>
<th>Reflexes</th>
<th>BJ</th>
<th>TJ</th>
<th>SJ</th>
<th>KJ</th>
<th>AJ</th>
<th>Abdo.</th>
<th>Plantar</th>
<th>Clonus</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Right</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Left</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

Cerebellar function normal?  Yes/No   Vestibular function normal? Yes/No


Rombergism present? Yes/No   Nystagmus present? Yes/No


EEG normal? Yes/No/Not Done<sup><a href='#star_e'>[*]</a></sup>


Electronystagmograms normal? Yes/No/Not Done<sup><a href='#star_e'>[*]</a></sup>


LAB. INVESTIGATIONS:   Hb: _________________________ g/dL _________________________ HCT: _________________________   Sickle cell trait absent? Yes/No<sup><a href='#star_e'>[*]</a></sup> (initial medical examination)


Blood group: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; BUN: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup><a href='#star_e'>[*]</a></sup>Creatinine: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup><a href='#star_e'>[*]</a></sup>Other


Urine PH: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Urine free of:   albumin? Yes/No   sugar? Yes/No   protein? Yes/No   blood? Yes/No


Comment on any abnormalities detected:


<table>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate free from physical defect and disease?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Has the candidate the physique for prolonged exertion?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate fit for work in all climates if inoculations are up-to-date?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate permanently unfit to dive?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate temporarily unfit to dive?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Date for next examination:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Is the candidate fit to dive with restrictions?</td>
<td>Yes/No</td>
<td>Specify:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Name and address of examining doctor:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Signed:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Place: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
</table>


## Part 2 — To Be Completed by the Diver in Ink.

Circle the correct answer as required. If in doubt, ask the advice of the examining doctor.


**(a)** Family name: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; First name(s): &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  Birth date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; S.I.N.: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provincial Health No.:


**(b)** Have you had a commercial diver’s medical examination before? Yes/No   If yes, when? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Where? &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; When did you first work under pressure?


**(c)** Date and place of your last bone and joint X-ray examination: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Other X-ray examinations: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Give details of vaccinations:


**(d)** Have you ever had any of the following medical problems?


1. Skin bends? Yes/No   2. Limb bends?  Yes/No   3.  Spinal or cerebral bends?  Yes/No   4. Pulmonary decompression sickness? Yes/No   5. Vestibulary bends? Yes/No   6. Pulmonary barotrauma (ruptured lung)? Yes/No   7. Arterial gas embolism? Yes/No   8. Problems with compression? Yes/No   9.  Dysbaric osteonecrosis (bone necrosis)? Yes/No


Give details of any positive answers, including date and number of times the problem has occurred:


**(e)** Do you have, or have you ever had or been treated for, any of the following medical conditions?

**1** AsthmaYes/No



**2** Hay fever or allergiesYes/No



**3** Allergy to drugs/medicationsYes/No



**4** Pneumothorax (collapsed lung)Yes/No



**5** Pneumonia or pleurisyYes/No



**6** Bronchitis or other lung diseasesYes/No



**7** TuberculosisYes/No



**8** Sinus troubleYes/No



**9** Ear diseaseYes/No



**10** Rheumatic feverYes/No



**11** Heart disease or murmurYes/No



**12** Chest pain or palpitationsYes/No



**13** Varicose veinsYes/No



**14** Bleeding tendencyYes/No



**15** Skin diseasesYes/No



**16** DiabetesYes/No



**17** Tropical diseasesYes/No



**18** Fits, blackouts or epilepsyYes/No



**19** Head injury or concussionYes/No



**20** Stroke or paralysisYes/No



**21** Severe headache or migraineYes/No



**22** Nervous breakdown or mental illnessesYes/No



**23** Eye disordersYes/No



**24** Stomach/duodenal/peptic ulcerYes/No



**25** Gall bladder disorderYes/No



**26** Diarrhea or bowel diseaseYes/No



**27** Jaundice or hepatitisYes/No



**28** Sexually transmitted disease or sexually transmitted infectionYes/No



**29** Toothache, dental problemsYes/No



**30** Bone/joint disease or injuryYes/No



**31** Back injury or chronic back painYes/No



**32** Other serious illness or injuryYes/No



**33** Females: gynaecological disease or pregnancyYes/No



**34** Motion sicknessYes/No




Give details of any positive answers, including dates:


**(f)** Give date and place of any hospital admissions or operations:


**(g)** Have you been under medical treatment during the past year? Yes/No   If yes, for what?


**(h)** Are you taking, or have you ever taken, any medicines or drugs? Yes/No   If yes, specify:


**(i)** If you smoke, how many cigarettes do you smoke? _____/day   If you drink alcohol, how many glasses of wine _____/week, of beer ______/week and of spirits _____/week do you drink?  Have you ever suffered from any health problems related to mind-altering, “street” or addictive drugs? Yes/No   If yes, give details:


I (name), &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, of (address) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, declare that all of the above information is true to the best of my knowledge and I give my permission for this information to be communicated to other doctors concerned with my health.


Signed: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Place: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;



## Part 3 — Physician’s Statement

Doctor’s remarks:


Diver’s logbook inspected? Yes/No   Signed: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; M.D.


If “no”, state reason: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Date: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;



