> [Go to French version](/fr/Lois/Lois%20révisées%20du%20Canada/R/R-8.md)

# Revolving Funds Act

**R.S.C. 1985, c. R-8**


----------



## Short Title



**Short title**

**1** This Act may be cited as the Revolving Funds Act.
> 1980-81-82-83, c. 17, s. 1.





## Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food



**Expenditures out of C.R.F.**

**2** 

- **(1)** The Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purposes of
	- **(a)** race track supervision in Canada;
	- **(b)** reimbursing race associations for certain supervisory services provided by them under regulations made pursuant to section 204 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md); and
	- **(c)** research relating to the use of drugs on horses and race surveillance techniques.

**Idem**

- **(2)** The Minister may spend, for the purposes mentioned in subsection (1), any revenue received in respect of those purposes and in respect of subsection 204(4) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (1) shall not at any time exceed by more than two million dollars the revenues received in respect of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1) and in respect of subsection 204(4) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).
> R.S., 1985, c. R-8, s. 2; 1994, c. 38, s. 25.





## Minister of Canadian Heritage (Parks Canada Agency)


**3** [Repealed, 2002, c. 5, Sch. 1 (PCA) vote 111b]



**3.1** [Repealed, 2002, c. 5, Sch. 1 (PCA) vote 112b]




## Minister of Foreign Affairs



**Expenditures out of C.R.F.**

**4** 

- **(1)** The Minister of Foreign Affairs may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of the operation of central and regional passport offices in Canada and passport services at posts abroad.

**Idem**

- **(2)** The Minister of Foreign Affairs may spend, for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1), any revenue received in respect of that purpose.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (1) shall not at any time exceed by more than four million dollars the revenues received in respect of the purpose mentioned in subsection (1).
> R.S., 1985, c. R-8, s. 4; 1995, c. 5, s. 25.





## Minister of Public Works and Government Services



**Architectural, Engineering and Realty Services Revolving Fund**

**5** 

- **(1)** The Minister of Public Works and Government Services may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of paragraph 6(e) or (h), section 10, paragraph 15(f) or (g) or section 24 of the [Department of Public Works and Government Services Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2016.md).

**Architectural, Engineering and Realty Services Revolving Fund**

- **(2)** The Minister may spend, for a purpose mentioned in subsection (1), any revenue received in respect of that purpose or any other purpose mentioned in that subsection.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (1) shall not at any time exceed by more than $300,000,000 the revenues received in respect of the purposes mentioned in that subsection.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(4)** There may be charged to the fund referred to in section 5.1 and credited to the fund established by this section
	- **(a)** any fees payable to the Minister of Public Works and Government Services for the sale or transfer of federal real property or federal immovables; and
	- **(b)** any expenditures made under subsection (1) in respect of the sale or transfer of that property, including expenditures made to prepare the property for sale or transfer.
> R.S., 1985, c. R-8, s. 5; R.S., 1985, c. 20 (1st Supp.), s. 2, c. 5 (4th Supp.), s. 1; 1996, c. 16, s. 55; 2001, c. 4, s. 168; 2002, c. 5, Sch. 1 (PWGSC) vote 7b; 2009, c. 26, Sch. 1 (PWGSC) vote 6a.





**Definitions**

**5.1** 

- **(1)** The definitions in this subsection apply in this section.

***administration*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Federal Real Property and Federal Immovables Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2050.md).

***federal immovable*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Federal Real Property and Federal Immovables Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2050.md), except that it does not include a lease of an immovable.

***federal real property*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Federal Real Property and Federal Immovables Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2050.md), except that it does not include a lease of real property.

**Expenditures out of C.R.F.**

- **(2)** The Minister of Public Works and Government Services may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of
	- **(a)** the sale, or the preparation for sale, of federal real property and federal immovables;
	- **(b)** the transfer, or the preparation for transfer, of the administration of federal real property or a federal immovable from one minister to another; or
	- **(c)** the transfer, or the preparation for transfer, of the administration and control of federal real property and federal immovables to Her Majesty in any right other than of Canada.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The Minister may spend, for the purposes mentioned in subsection (2), any revenues received in respect of those purposes and, subject to any terms and conditions that the Treasury Board may approve with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, any proceeds from the sale or transfer of federal real property and federal immovables.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(4)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (2) shall not at any time exceed by more than five million dollars the revenues received and the proceeds of sale or transfer of federal real property and federal immovables received in respect of the purposes mentioned in that subsection.
> 1996, c. 16, s. 55; 2001, c. 4, s. 169.





**Government Telecommunications and Informatics Services Revolving Fund**

**5.2** 

- **(1)** The Minister of Public Works and Government Services may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of paragraph 6(g) or 15(b) of the [Department of Public Works and Government Services Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2016.md).

**Government Telecommunications and Informatics Services Revolving Fund**

- **(2)** The Minister may spend, for a purpose mentioned in subsection (1), any revenue received in respect of that purpose.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (1) shall not at any time exceed by more than $40,000,000 the revenues received in respect of the purposes mentioned in that subsection.
> 1996, c. 16, s. 55; 2002, c. 5, Sch. 1 (PWGSC) vote 9b; 2009, c. 34, Sch. 1 (PWGSC) vote 7b.




**5.3** [Repealed, 1998, c. 2, Sch. (PWGSC) vote 18b]




**Consulting and Audit Canada Revolving Fund**

**5.4** 

- **(1)** The Minister of Public Works and Government Services may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of paragraph 15(a), (d) or (h) of the [Department of Public Works and Government Services Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2016.md).

**Consulting and Audit Canada Revolving Fund**

- **(2)** The Minister may spend, for a purpose mentioned in subsection (1), any revenue received in respect of that purpose.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (1) shall not at any time exceed by more than twenty million dollars the revenues received in respect of the purposes mentioned in that subsection.
> 1996, c. 16, s. 55; 2002, c. 5, Sch. 1 (PWGSC) vote 8b.





**Optional Services Revolving Fund**

**5.5** 

- **(1)** The Minister of Public Works and Government Services may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of paragraphs 6(a) and (b) of the [Department of Public Works and Government Services Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2016.md), for the purpose of undertakings in respect of the Traffic Management and the Buy for Lease Program and for the purpose of section 6 of the [Surplus Crown Assets Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-27.md).

**Optional Services Revolving Fund**

- **(2)** The Minister may spend, for a purpose mentioned in subsection (1), any revenue received in respect of that purpose.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (1) shall not at any time exceed by more than thirty-five million dollars the revenues received in respect of the purposes mentioned in that subsection.
> 1996, c. 16, s. 55, c. 29, Sch. (PWGSC) vote 17a; 2002, c. 5, Sch. 1 (PWGSC) vote 6b.





**Services to governments and other bodies**

**5.6** Sections 5 to 5.5 and Public Works and Government Services Vote 23d, Appropriation Act No. 4, 1994-95 apply in respect of any thing done by the Minister of Public Works and Government Services pursuant to section 16 of the [Department of Public Works and Government Services Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2016.md) and accordingly the power of that Minister to make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and spend revenues for a purpose mentioned in any of sections 5 to 5.5 includes a power to do so for those purposes mentioned in section 16 of that Act.
> 1996, c. 16, s. 55, c. 29, Sch. (PWGSC) vote 18a.





## Secretary of State of Canada (National Film Board)



**Expenditures out of C.R.F.**

**6** 

- **(1)** The Secretary of State of Canada may make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of the operation of the National Film Board.

**Idem**

- **(2)** The Secretary of State of Canada may spend, for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1), any revenue received in respect of that purpose.

**Limit on expenditures**

- **(3)** The aggregate of expenditures made under subsection (1) shall not at any time exceed by more than twenty-five million dollars the revenues received in respect of the purpose mentioned in subsection (1).
> R.S., 1985, c. R-8, s. 6; 1995, c. 9, Sch. (NFB) vote 121d.





## Secretary of State of Canada (Public Service Commission)


**7** [Repealed, 2003, c. 22, s. 261]




## Minister of Supply and Services


**8** [Repealed, 1992, c. 7, Sch. (SSC) vote 11c]



**9** [Repealed, R.S., 1985, c. 5 (3rd Supp.), s. 1]




## Minister of Transport (Airports)


**10** [Repealed, 1991, c. 19, Sch. (TC) vote 2c]




## General



**Treasury Board**

**11** All expenditures made under sections 2 to 10 and all revenues spent under those sections shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Treasury Board may specify.
> 1980-81-82-83, c. 17, s. 32.





**Amendment or repeal**

**12** The provisions of this Act may be amended or repealed by an appropriation Act.
> 1980-81-82-83, c. 17, s. 33.



