> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2013/119.md)

# Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations

**SOR/2013-119**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CONTROLLED DRUGS AND SUBSTANCES ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2019.md)

Date registered: 7 June 2013

----------

Whereas a provision of the annexed Regulations provides for the communication of information obtained under the Regulations to certain classes of persons referred to in paragraph 55(1)(s) of the [Controlled Drugs and Substances Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2019.md)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> and, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, it is necessary to communicate that information to those classes of persons for the proper administration or enforcement of the Act and the Regulations;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to subsection 55(1) of the [Controlled Drugs and Substances Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2019.md)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Marihuana for Medical Purposes Regulations.

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1996, c. 19<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** 

- **(1)** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Controlled Drugs and Substances Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2019.md).

***adult*** means a person who is 18 years of age or older.

***advertisement*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md).

***brand name*** means, with reference to cannabis, the name, in English or French,
- **(a)** that is assigned to it;
- **(b)** that is used to distinguish it; and
- **(c)** under which it is sold, provided or advertised.

***cannabis*** means the substance set out in item 1 of Schedule II to the Act.

***client*** means a person who is registered as a client with a licensed producer under section 111.

***competent authority*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md).

***delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol*** means Δ<sup>9</sup>-tetrahydrocannabinol ((6aR, 10aR)-6a,7,8,10a-tetrahydro-6,6,9-trimethyl-3-pentyl-6H-dibenzo [b,d] pyran-1-ol).

***dried marihuana*** means harvested marihuana that has been subjected to any drying process.

***health care practitioner*** means a medical practitioner or a nurse practitioner.

***hospital*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md). 

***immediate container*** means the container referred to in paragraph 64(a).

***international obligation*** means an obligation in respect of cannabis set out in a convention, treaty or other multilateral or bilateral instrument that Canada has ratified or to which Canada adheres.

***licensed dealer*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md).

***licensed producer*** means the holder of a licence issued under section 25.

***local government*** includes the government of
- **(a)** an incorporated or unincorporated city, metropolitan area, town, village or municipality;
- **(b)** a band, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Indian Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-5.md); and
- **(c)** a band that is a party to a comprehensive self-government agreement given effect by an Act of Parliament.

***marihuana*** means the substance referred to as “Cannabis (marihuana)” in subitem 1(2) of Schedule II to the Act.

***medical document*** means a medical document referred to in section 129.

***medical practitioner*** means a person who
- **(a)** is registered and entitled under the laws of a province to practise medicine in that province; and
- **(b)** is not named in a notice issued under section 59 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) that has not been retracted under section 60 of those Regulations.

***nurse practitioner*** means a nurse practitioner within the meaning of section 1 of the [New Classes of Practitioners Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2012/230.md) who
- **(a)** is permitted to prescribe dried marihuana in the province in which they practise; and
- **(b)** is not named in a notice issued under section 59 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) that has not been retracted under section 60 of those Regulations.

***pharmacist*** means a pharmacist within the meaning of section 2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) who is not named in a notice issued under section 48 of those Regulations that has not been retracted under section 49 of those Regulations.

***responsible person in charge*** means, for the purpose of Part 1, the person designated under paragraph 22(1)(b).

***security clearance*** means a security clearance granted by the Minister under section 92.

***Security Directive*** means the Directive on Physical Security Requirements for Controlled Substances (Security Requirements for Licensed Dealers for the Storage of Controlled Substances) published by the Department of Health, as amended from time to time.

***senior person in charge*** means the person designated under paragraph 22(1)(a).

***site*** means
- **(a)** a building or a place in a building used by a licensed producer; or
- **(b)** an area occupied exclusively by buildings used by a licensed producer.

***transfer*** means, except in sections 118, 122 and 132, to transfer, whether directly or indirectly, without consideration.

**Miscellaneous rules**

- **(2)** The rules set out in subsections (3) to (6) apply in these Regulations.

**Producer’s site**

- **(3)** A reference to the site of a licensed producer is a reference to the site specified in the producer’s licence.

**Destruction**

- **(4)** Cannabis is destroyed when it is altered or denatured to such an extent that its consumption is rendered impossible or improbable.

**Drying**

- **(5)** The production of marihuana includes subjecting it to a drying process.

**Transfer**

- **(6)** For greater certainty, a reference to “provide” includes “transfer”.




**Application of [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md)**

**2** For greater certainty, except in the case of inconsistency with these Regulations, the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) also apply to cannabis referred to in these Regulations.




## Possession



**Obtaining dried marihuana or cannabis**

**3** 

- **(1)** A person listed in subsection (2) may possess dried marihuana and a person listed in subsection (3) may possess cannabis if the person has obtained it
	- **(a)** in accordance with these Regulations;
	- **(b)** in the course of activities performed in connection with the enforcement or administration of any Act or its regulations;
	- **(c)** from a person who is exempt under section 56 of the Act from the application of subsection 5(1) of the Act with respect to the dried marihuana or cannabis; or
	- **(d)** in the case referred to in subparagraph (2)(a)(iii), under subsection 65(2.1) of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md).

**Possession — dried marihuana**

- **(2)** The following persons may possess dried marihuana:
	- **(a)** a person who has obtained the dried marihuana for their own medical purposes or for those of another person for whom they are responsible
		- **(i)** from a licensed producer, in accordance with a medical document,
		- **(ii)** from a health care practitioner in the course of treatment for a medical condition, or
		- **(iii)** from a hospital, under subsection 65(2.1) of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md);
	- **(b)** a person who requires dried marihuana for the practice of their profession as a health care practitioner in the province in which they have that possession; or
	- **(c)** a hospital employee, if they possess the dried marihuana for the purposes of and in connection with their employment.

**Possession — cannabis**

- **(3)** The following persons may possess cannabis:
	- **(a)** a person who requires cannabis for their business as a licensed producer and who possesses it in accordance with section 12;
	- **(b)** a person who requires cannabis for their business as a licensed dealer;
	- **(c)** a person who is employed as an inspector, an analyst, a peace officer, a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or a member of the technical or scientific staff of a department of the government of Canada or of a province and who possesses the cannabis for the purposes of and in connection with their employment; or
	- **(d)** a person who is acting as the agent or mandatary of a person whom they have reasonable grounds to believe is a person referred to in paragraph (c) and who possesses the cannabis for the purpose of assisting that person in the administration or enforcement of any Act or its regulations.

**Employee, agent or mandatary — dried marihuana**

- **(4)** A person may possess dried marihuana if the person is an employee of or is acting as the agent or mandatary for a person referred to in paragraph (2)(b) or (c), while acting in the course of their employment or their role as agent or mandatary.

**Employee, agent or mandatary — cannabis**

- **(5)** A person may possess cannabis if the person is an employee of or is acting as the agent or mandatary for a person referred to in paragraph (3)(a) or (b), while acting in the course of their employment or their role as agent or mandatary.

**Providing assistance**

- **(6)** While in the presence of a person referred to in paragraph (2)(a) who has obtained dried marihuana for their own medical purposes, another person may, for the purpose of providing assistance in the administration of marihuana to the person who obtained it, possess a quantity of that dried marihuana not exceeding the daily quantity of dried marihuana that the person who obtained it is authorized to possess in accordance with section 5.




**Obtaining cannabis — [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md)**

**4** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer may possess cannabis that they have obtained in accordance with the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) if they require it for their business.

**Employee, agent or mandatary**

- **(2)** A person may possess cannabis referred to in subsection (1) if the person is an employee of or is acting as the agent or mandatary of the licensed producer, while acting in the course of their employment or their role as agent or mandatary.




**Possession limit**

**5** An individual who obtains dried marihuana for their own medical purposes or for those of another individual for whom they are responsible must not possess a quantity of dried marihuana that exceeds the least of the following amounts:
- **(a)** in the case of dried marihuana obtained from a licensed producer, 30 times the daily quantity referred to in paragraph 129(1)(d);
- **(b)** in the case of dried marihuana obtained from a hospital by or for an out-patient, 30 times the daily quantity referred to in subparagraph 65.2(c)(iii) of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md); and
- **(c)** 150 g.




## General Provisions



**Dried marihuana**

**6** 

- **(1)** Dried marihuana must not be sold or provided under these Regulations
	- **(a)** with any additive; or
	- **(b)** in any dosage form, such as in a roll or capsule.

**Definition of additive**

- **(2)** For the purpose of paragraph (1)(a), ***additive*** means anything other than dried marihuana, except for any residue of a pest control product that is not in excess of the limit referred to in subsection 54(2).




**Notice of refusal or revocation**

**7** If the Minister proposes to refuse to issue, amend or renew a licence or permit or proposes to revoke a licence or permit under these Regulations, other than in the case of a revocation under section 35 or subsection 37(4), 81(1) or 88(1), the Minister must
- **(a)** send a notice to the applicant or to the holder of the licence or permit together with a written report that sets out the reasons for the refusal or revocation; and
- **(b)** give the applicant or holder an opportunity to be heard in respect of the refusal or revocation.




**Further information**

**8** The Minister may, on receiving an application made under these Regulations, require the submission of any further information that pertains to the information contained in the application and that is necessary for the Minister to process the application.




**Inspection of site**

**9** In order to confirm any information submitted in support of an application for a licence or an amendment or renewal of a licence made under these Regulations, an inspector may, at a time during normal business hours and with the reasonable assistance of the applicant, inspect the site in respect of which the application was made.




**Police enforcement**

**10** If, under the [Controlled Drugs and Substances Act (Police Enforcement) Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/97/234.md), a member of a police force or a person acting under the direction and control of the member is, in respect of the conduct of the member or person, exempt from the application of subsection 4(2) or section 5, 6 or 7 of the Act, the member or person is, in respect of that conduct, exempt from the application of these Regulations.




**Alteration of documents**

**11** It is prohibited to mark, alter or deface in any manner a licence or permit issued under these Regulations or a medical document.




**PART 1** 
## Licensed Producers



**DIVISION 1** 
### Permitted Activities and General Obligations



**Activities**

**12** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) to (7) and to the other provisions of these Regulations, a licensed producer may
	- **(a)** possess, produce, sell, provide, ship, deliver, transport and destroy marihuana;
	- **(b)** possess and produce cannabis, other than marihuana, solely for the purpose of conducting in vitro testing that is necessary to determine the percentages of cannabinoids in dried marihuana; and
	- **(c)** sell, provide, ship, deliver, transport and destroy cannabis, other than marihuana, that was obtained or produced solely for the purpose of conducting the in vitro testing referred to in paragraph (b).

**Restriction — cannabis**

- **(2)** A licensed producer may sell or provide a substance referred to in subsection (3) to
	- **(a)** another licensed producer;
	- **(b)** a licensed dealer;
	- **(c)** the Minister; or
	- **(d)** a person to whom an exemption relating to the substance has been granted under section 56 of the Act.

**Substances**

- **(3)** The substances that may be sold or provided under subsection (2) are
	- **(a)** marihuana; and
	- **(b)** cannabis, other than marihuana, that was obtained or produced solely for the purpose of conducting in vitro testing that is necessary to determine the percentages of cannabinoids in dried marihuana.

**Restriction — dried marihuana**

- **(4)** A licensed producer may
	- **(a)** sell or provide dried marihuana to
		- **(i)** a client of that producer or an individual who is responsible for the client,
		- **(ii)** a hospital employee, if the possession of the dried marihuana is for the purposes of and in connection with their employment, or
		- **(iii)** a person to whom an exemption relating to the dried marihuana has been granted under section 56 of the Act; and
	- **(b)** ship dried marihuana to a health care practitioner in the case referred to in subparagraph 108(1)(f)(iii).

**Activities limited**

- **(5)** A licensed producer may conduct an activity referred to in subsection (1), (2) or (4) if the producer
	- **(a)** is licensed to conduct the activity; and
	- **(b)** conducts the activity in accordance with their licence.

**Import**

- **(6)** A licensed producer may import marihuana if they do so in accordance with an import permit issued under section 75.

**Export**

- **(7)** A licensed producer may
	- **(a)** possess marihuana for the purpose of export; and
	- **(b)** export marihuana if they do so in accordance with an export permit issued under section 83.




**Dwelling place**

**13** A licensed producer must not conduct any activity referred to in section 12 at a dwelling place.




**Indoor activities only**

**14** A licensed producer must produce, package or label marihuana only indoors and at the producer’s site.




**Indoor storage only**

**15** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must store cannabis only indoors and at the producer’s site.

**Storage of dried marihuana**

- **(2)** A licensed producer must store cannabis, other than marihuana plants, in accordance with the Security Directive.




**Identification of licensed producer**

**16** A licensed producer must include their name, as set out in their licence, on all the means by which the producer identifies themself in relation to cannabis, including advertising, product labels, orders, shipping documents and invoices.




**Responsible person in charge present**

**17** A licensed producer must not perform a transaction involving cannabis unless the responsible person in charge or, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge is physically present at the producer’s site.




**Safekeeping during transportation**

**18** A licensed producer must, when transporting imported marihuana between the port of entry into Canada and the producer’s site, or when shipping, delivering or transporting any marihuana, including to a port of exit from Canada, take any steps that are necessary to ensure its safekeeping during transportation.




**Report of loss or theft**

**19** If a licensed producer experiences a theft of cannabis or an unusual waste or disappearance of cannabis that cannot be explained on the basis of normally accepted business activities, the licensed producer must
- **(a)** report the occurrence to a member of a police force within 24 hours after becoming aware of it; and
- **(b)** provide a written report to the Minister within 10 days after becoming aware of the occurrence.




**Destruction**

**20** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer may destroy cannabis only if they do so
	- **(a)** in accordance with a method that
		- **(i)** conforms with all federal, provincial and municipal environmental legislation applicable to the location at which it is to be destroyed, and
		- **(ii)** does not result in any person being exposed to cannabis smoke; and
	- **(b)** in the presence of at least two persons who are qualified to witness the destruction, one of whom must be a person referred to in paragraph (2)(a).

**Witness to destruction**

- **(2)** The following persons are qualified to witness the destruction of cannabis:
	- **(a)** the senior person in charge, the responsible person in charge and, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge; and
	- **(b)** a person who works for or provides services to the licensed producer and acts in a senior position.

**Transportation of cannabis**

- **(3)** If the cannabis is to be destroyed at a location other than the licensed producer’s site, the senior person in charge, the responsible person in charge or, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge must accompany the cannabis to the location at which it is to be destroyed.




**DIVISION 2** 
### Licensing



**Eligible persons**

**21** The following persons are eligible to apply for a producer’s licence:
- **(a)** an adult who ordinarily resides in Canada; and
- **(b)** a corporation that has its head office in Canada or operates a branch office in Canada and whose officers and directors are all adults.




**Senior person in charge and responsible person in charge**

**22** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must designate
	- **(a)** one senior person in charge to have overall responsibility for management of the activities carried out by the licensed producer under their licence at their site — who may, if appropriate, be the licensed producer; and
	- **(b)** one responsible person in charge to work at the licensed producer’s site and have responsibility for supervising the activities with respect to cannabis conducted at that site by the licensed producer under their licence and for ensuring that the activities comply with the Act and its regulations and the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md) — who may, if appropriate, be the senior person in charge.

**Alternate responsible person in charge**

- **(2)** A licensed producer may designate one or more alternate responsible persons in charge to work at the licensed producer’s site and have authority to replace the responsible person in charge when that person is absent.

**Eligibility**

- **(3)** The senior person in charge, the responsible person in charge and, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge
	- **(a)** must be adults; and
	- **(b)** must be familiar with the provisions of the Act and its regulations and the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md) that apply to the licence held by the licensed producer by whom they are designated.




**Application for licence**

**23** 

- **(1)** To apply for a producer’s licence, a person must submit to the Minister an application that contains the following information:
	- **(a)** if the applicant is
		- **(i)** an individual, the individual’s name, date of birth and gender and any other name registered with a province, under which the individual intends to identify themself or conduct the activities for which the licence is sought (referred to in this section as “the proposed activities”), or
		- **(ii)** a corporation, its corporate name and any other name registered with a province, under which it intends to identify itself or conduct the proposed activities, as well as the name, date of birth and gender of each of its officers and directors;
	- **(b)** the address, telephone number and, if applicable, the facsimile number and email address for
		- **(i)** the site for which the licence is sought (referred to in this section as “the proposed site”), and
		- **(ii)** if applicable, each building within the site at which the proposed activities are to be conducted;
	- **(c)** the mailing address for the proposed site and, if applicable, for each building referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii), if different from the address provided under paragraph (b);
	- **(d)** the name, date of birth and gender of each of the following persons:
		- **(i)** the proposed senior person in charge,
		- **(ii)** the proposed responsible person in charge, and
		- **(iii)** if applicable, the proposed alternate responsible person in charge;
	- **(e)** the name and gender of each of the persons authorized to place an order for cannabis on behalf of the applicant;
	- **(f)** the activities among those referred to in subsection 12(1) that are proposed to be conducted, the purposes for conducting those activities and the substances in respect of which each of the activities is to be conducted;
	- **(g)** the proposed activities that are to be conducted at each building referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) and the substances in respect of which each of those activities is to be conducted at each building;
	- **(h)** a detailed description of the security measures at the proposed site, as determined in accordance with the Security Directive and Division 3;
	- **(i)** a detailed description of the method that the applicant proposes to use for keeping records, which must permit
		- **(i)** compliance with the requirements of Part 6,
		- **(ii)** the Minister to audit the activities of the licensed producer with respect to cannabis, and
		- **(iii)** the reconciliation of orders for cannabis and shipments and inventories of cannabis;
	- **(j)** if applicable, the maximum quantity (expressed as the net weight in kilograms) of dried marihuana to be produced by the applicant under the licence and the production period; and
	- **(k)** if applicable, the maximum quantity (expressed as the net weight in kilograms) of dried marihuana to be sold or provided by the applicant under the licence under subsection 12(4) and the period in which that quantity is to be sold or provided.

**Multiple sites**

- **(2)** If the applicant intends to engage in an activity referred to in subsection 12(1) at more than one site, a separate application must be made for each proposed site.

**Statement by signatory**

- **(3)** An application for a producer’s licence must
	- **(a)** be signed and dated by the proposed senior person in charge; and
	- **(b)** include a statement signed and dated by that person indicating that
		- **(i)** all of the information and documents submitted in support of the application are correct and complete to the best of their knowledge, and
		- **(ii)** they have the authority to bind the applicant.

**Accompanying documents**

- **(4)** An application for a producer’s licence must be accompanied by
	- **(a)** a declaration, signed and dated by the proposed senior person in charge, stating that the proposed senior person in charge, the proposed responsible person in charge and, if applicable, the proposed alternate responsible person in charge are familiar with the provisions of the Act and its regulations and the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md) that will apply to the licence;
	- **(b)** if applicable, a copy of any document filed with the province in which the proposed site is located that states the applicant’s name and any other name registered with the province, under which the applicant intends to identify themself or conduct the proposed activities;
	- **(c)** if the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of incorporation or other constituting instrument;
	- **(d)** a declaration signed and dated by the proposed senior person in charge indicating whether or not the applicant is the owner of the entire proposed site;
	- **(e)** if the proposed site or any portion of it is not owned by the applicant, a declaration signed and dated by the owner of the site or each portion of the site consenting to the use of it by the applicant for the proposed activities;
	- **(f)** a declaration signed and dated by the proposed senior person in charge stating that the proposed site is not a dwelling place;
	- **(g)** a declaration signed and dated by the proposed senior person in charge stating that the notices to local authorities have been provided in accordance with section 38 and specifying the names, titles and addresses of the officials to whom they were addressed and the dates on which they were provided, together with a copy of each notice;
	- **(h)** a document signed and dated by the quality assurance person referred to in section 60 that includes
		- **(i)** a description of the person’s qualifications in respect of the matters referred to in subparagraph 60(1)(a)(ii), and
		- **(ii)** a report establishing that the buildings, equipment and sanitation program to be used in conducting the proposed activities referred to in Division 4 comply with the requirements of that Division; and
	- **(i)** floor plans for the proposed site.




**Security clearance required**

**24** The following persons must hold a security clearance:
- **(a)** the senior person in charge;
- **(b)** the responsible person in charge;
- **(c)** if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge;
- **(d)** if a producer’s licence is issued to an individual, that individual; and
- **(e)** if a producer’s licence is issued to a corporation, each officer and director of the corporation.




**Issuance of licence**

**25** Subject to section 26, the Minister must, after examining the information and documents required under section 23 and, if applicable, section 8, and after all of the security clearances required by section 24 have been granted under section 92, issue to the applicant a producer’s licence that indicates
- **(a)** the licence number;
- **(b)** the name of the licence holder;
- **(c)** the list of permitted activities;
- **(d)** the address of the site and, if applicable, of each building within the site at which the licensed producer may conduct the permitted activities;
- **(e)** in respect of each building, the activities that may be conducted at that building and, in respect of each activity, the substances in respect of which the activity may be conducted;
- **(f)** the security level, determined in accordance with the Security Directive, of each building referred to in paragraph (d) at which cannabis, other than marihuana plants, is stored;
- **(g)** the effective date of the licence;
- **(h)** the expiry date of the licence, which must not be later than three years after its effective date;
- **(i)** if applicable, the maximum quantity of dried marihuana that may be produced under the licence in a specified period, expressed as the net weight in kilograms;
- **(j)** if applicable, the maximum quantity of dried marihuana that may be sold or provided under the licence in a specified period in accordance with subsection 12(4), expressed as the net weight in kilograms; and
- **(k)** if applicable, any conditions that the licence holder must meet in order to
	- **(i)** comply with an international obligation,
	- **(ii)** provide the security level referred to in paragraph (f ),
	- **(iii)** put in place the security measures referred to in Division 3, or
	- **(iv)** reduce any potential public health, safety or security risk, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use.




**Grounds for refusal**

**26** 

- **(1)** The Minister must refuse to issue, renew or amend a producer’s licence in the following cases:
	- **(a)** the applicant is not eligible under section 21;
	- **(b)** the requirements of section 38 or 39 have not been met;
	- **(c)** an inspector, who has requested an inspection, has not been given the opportunity by the applicant to conduct an inspection under section 9;
	- **(d)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that false or misleading information or false or falsified documents were submitted in or with the application;
	- **(e)** information received from a peace officer, a competent authority or the United Nations raises reasonable grounds to believe that the applicant has been involved in the diversion of a controlled substance or precursor to an illicit market or use;
	- **(f)** the applicant does not have in place the security measures set out in the Security Directive and Division 3 in respect of an activity for which the licence is sought;
	- **(g)** the applicant is in contravention of or has contravened in the past 10 years
		- **(i)** a provision of the Act or its regulations or the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md), or
		- **(ii)** a term or condition of another licence or a permit issued to it under any of those regulations;
	- **(h)** the issuance, renewal or amendment of the licence would likely create a risk to public health, safety or security, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use;
	- **(i)** any of the following persons does not hold a security clearance:
		- **(i)** the senior person in charge,
		- **(ii)** the responsible person in charge,
		- **(iii)** if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge,
		- **(iv)** if the applicant is an individual, that individual, and
		- **(v)** if the applicant is a corporation, any of its officers or directors;
	- **(j)** the proposed method of record keeping does not meet the requirements of paragraph 23(1)(i); or
	- **(k)** if applicable, the information required under section 8 has not been provided or is insufficient to process the application.

**Exception**

- **(2)** Unless it is necessary to do so to protect public health, safety or security, including preventing cannabis from being diverted to an illicit market or use, the Minister must not refuse to issue, renew or amend a licence under paragraph (1)(d) or (g) if the applicant has carried out, or signed an undertaking to carry out, the necessary corrective measures to ensure compliance with the Act and its regulations and the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md).

**Failure to comply with undertaking**

- **(3)** If an applicant fails to comply with an undertaking referred to in subsection (2), the Minister must refuse to issue, renew or amend the licence.




**Period of validity**

**27** A producer’s licence is valid until the earlier of
- **(a)** the expiry date of the licence, and
- **(b)** the date on which the licence is revoked under any of sections 34 to 37.




**Application for renewal**

**28** 

- **(1)** To apply to renew their licence, a licensed producer must submit to the Minister an application that contains the following:
	- **(a)** the original of the licence; and
	- **(b)** a declaration signed and dated by the senior person in charge indicating that as of the date of the application
		- **(i)** that person has the authority to bind the applicant, and
		- **(ii)** to the best of that person’s knowledge,
			- **(A)** all of the information shown on the producer’s licence as specified in paragraphs 25(a) to (f ) and (i) to (k ) is correct and complete, and
			- **(B)** if applicable, the requirements of sections 30 and 31 have been met.

**Renewal**

- **(2)** Subject to section 26, the Minister must, after examining the information and documents required under subsection (1) and, if applicable, section 8, issue a renewed licence that contains the information set out in paragraphs 25(a) to (k).

**Simultaneous processing of applications**

- **(3)** If a licensed producer submits an application under section 29 or paragraph 30(1)(a) together with an application under subsection (1), the Minister may process them together.




**Application for amendment**

**29** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer proposing to amend the content of their licence must provide the Minister with the following documents:
	- **(a)** an application in writing describing the proposed amendment, as well as any information or documents mentioned in section 23 that are relevant to the proposed amendment;
	- **(b)** if applicable, a declaration signed and dated by the senior person in charge stating that the notices to local authorities have been provided in accordance with section 39 and specifying the names, titles and addresses of the officials to whom they were addressed and the dates on which they were provided, together with a copy of each notice; and
	- **(c)** the original of the licence.

**Statement by signatory**

- **(2)** The application must
	- **(a)** be signed and dated by the senior person in charge; and
	- **(b)** include a statement signed and dated by that person indicating that
		- **(i)** all of the information and documents submitted in support of the application are correct and complete to the best of their knowledge, and
		- **(ii)** they have the authority to bind the applicant.

**Issuance**

- **(3)** Subject to section 26, the Minister must, after examining the information and documents required under this section and, if applicable, section 8, amend the licence accordingly and may add any conditions that the licence holder must meet in order to
	- **(a)** comply with an international obligation;
	- **(b)** provide the security level referred to in paragraph 25(f) or the new level applicable as a result of the amendment of the licence;
	- **(c)** put in place the security measures referred to in Division 3; or
	- **(d)** reduce any potential public health, safety or security risk, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use.




**Notice to Minister — change of personnel**

**30** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must
	- **(a)** apply for and obtain the Minister’s approval before making a change involving the replacement or the addition of
		- **(i)** the senior person in charge,
		- **(ii)** the responsible person in charge and, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge,
		- **(iii)** if applicable, an officer or director referred to in subparagraph 23(1)(a)(ii), or
		- **(iv)** an individual authorized to place an order for cannabis on behalf of the licensed producer;
	- **(b)** except in the case referred to in subsection (3), notify the Minister, not later than five days after the event, when a person referred to in any of subparagraphs (a)(i), (ii) or (iv) ceases to carry out their duties; and
	- **(c)** notify the Minister, not later than five days after the event, when a person referred to in subparagraph (a)(iii) ceases to be an officer or director.

**Accompanying information**

- **(2)** The licensed producer must, with the application for approval referred to in paragraph (1)(a), provide the Minister with the following information and documents with respect to the new person:
	- **(a)** in the case of the replacement of the senior person in charge or the responsible person in charge or the replacement or addition of an alternate responsible person in charge,
		- **(i)** the information specified in paragraph 23(1)(d), and
		- **(ii)** the declaration specified in paragraph 23(4)(a);
	- **(b)** in the case of the replacement or addition of an officer or director, the information specified in subparagraph 23(1)(a)(ii) concerning that person; and
	- **(c)** in the case of the replacement or addition of an individual who is authorized to place an order for cannabis on behalf of the licensed producer, the information specified in paragraph 23(1)(e).

**Notice to Minister — responsible person in charge**

- **(3)** A licensed producer must notify the Minister not later than the next business day if the responsible person in charge ceases to carry out their duties and there is no person designated as an alternate responsible person in charge.




**Notice to Minister — various changes**

**31** A licensed producer must, within five days after the change, notify the Minister of any change to
- **(a)** the method used for keeping records;
- **(b)** the telephone number and, if applicable, the facsimile number and email address for
	- **(i)** their site; and
	- **(ii)** if applicable, each building within the site at which the activities are conducted under the licence; or
- **(c)** the security of their site, other than a changes that affects the security level of any building at which cannabis, other than marihuana plants, is stored.




**Statement by signatory of notice**

**32** An application or notification made under section 30 or 31 must
- **(a)** be signed and dated by the senior person in charge; and
- **(b)** include a statement signed and dated by that person indicating that
	- **(i)** all information and, if applicable, documents submitted in support of the application or notification are correct and complete to the best of their knowledge, and
	- **(ii)** they have the authority to bind the licensed producer.




**Suspension**

**33** 

- **(1)** The Minister must suspend a producer’s licence without prior notice in respect of any or all activities or substances set out in the licence if the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that it is necessary to do so to protect public health, safety or security, including preventing cannabis from being diverted to an illicit market or use.

**Notice of suspension**

- **(2)** The suspension takes effect as soon as the Minister notifies the licensed producer of the decision to suspend and provides a written report that sets out the reasons for the suspension.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(3)** The licensed producer may, within 10 days after receipt of the notice, provide the Minister with reasons why the suspension is unfounded.

**Ceasing of suspended activities**

- **(4)** If a licence is suspended in respect of any or all activities or substances set out in the licence, the licensed producer must cease conducting those activities with respect to those substances for the duration of the suspension.

**Reinstatement of licence**

- **(5)** The Minister must, by notice to the licensed producer, reinstate a licence, in respect of any or all activities or substances affected by the suspension, if the licensed producer demonstrates to the Minister that
	- **(a)** the failure that gave rise to the suspension has been rectified; or
	- **(b)** the suspension was unfounded.




**Revocation following suspension**

**34** The Minister must revoke a licence if the licensed producer fails to comply with the decision of the Minister to suspend the licence under section 33 or if the failure that gave rise to the suspension is not rectified.




**Revocation — lost or stolen licence**

**35** The Minister must revoke a producer’s licence on being notified by the licensed producer that the licence has been lost or stolen.




**Revocation — other grounds**

**36** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the Minister must revoke a producer’s licence in the following circumstances:
	- **(a)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that the licence was issued on the basis of false or misleading information or false or falsified documents submitted in or with the application;
	- **(b)** the licensed producer has, since the issuance of the licence, contravened a provision of the Act or its regulations or the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md) or a condition of their licence or of an import or export permit issued under these Regulations;
	- **(c)** the licensed producer is no longer eligible under section 21;
	- **(d)** information received from a peace officer, a competent authority or the United Nations raises reasonable grounds to believe that the licensed producer has been involved in the diversion of a controlled substance or precursor to an illicit market or use; or
	- **(e)** any of the persons referred to in section 24 does not hold a security clearance.

**Exceptions**

- **(2)** Unless it is necessary to do so to protect public health, safety or security, including preventing cannabis from being diverted to an illicit market or use, the Minister must not revoke a producer’s licence in the circumstances described in paragraph (1)(a) or (b) if the licensed producer has carried out, or signed an undertaking to carry out, the necessary corrective measures to ensure compliance with the Act and its regulations and the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md).

**Failure to comply with undertaking**

- **(3)** If the licensed producer fails to comply with an undertaking referred to in subsection (2), the Minister must revoke the licence.




**Notice of cessation of activities**

**37** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer who intends to cease conducting activities at their site — whether before or on the expiry of their licence — must submit to the Minister a written notice to that effect at least 30 days before ceasing those activities.

**Content of notice**

- **(2)** The notice must be signed and dated by the senior person in charge and contain the following information:
	- **(a)** the expected date of the cessation of activities at the site;
	- **(b)** a description of the manner in which any cannabis remaining on the site as of the date referred to in paragraph (a) will be dealt with by the licensed producer, including
		- **(i)** if some or all of it will be sold or provided to another licensed producer who will be conducting activities at the same site, the name of that producer,
		- **(ii)** if some or all of it will be sold or provided to another licensed producer or a licensed dealer, the name of that producer and the address of their site or the name of that dealer and the address of their premises, and
		- **(iii)** if some or all of it will be destroyed, the date on which and the location at which the destruction is to take place;
	- **(c)** the address of the location at which the licensed producer’s records, books, electronic data and other documents will be kept after activities have ceased; and
	- **(d)** the name, address, telephone number and, if applicable, the facsimile number and email address of a person who the Minister may contact for further information after activities have ceased.

**Update**

- **(3)** After having ceased the activities, the licensed producer must submit to the Minister a detailed update of the information referred to in paragraphs (2)(a) to (d), if it differs from what was set out in the notice submitted under subsection (1). The update must be signed and dated by the senior person in charge.

**Return and revocation of licence**

- **(4)** If the activities are ceased before the expiry of the licence, the licensed producer must return to the Minister the original of the licence. The Minister must then revoke the licence.




**Notice to local authorities – licence application**

**38** 

- **(1)** Before submitting an application for a producer’s licence to the Minister under section 23, the applicant must provide a written notice to the following persons in the area in which the site referred to in paragraph 23(1)(b) is located:
	- **(a)** the local government;
	- **(b)** the local fire authority; and
	- **(c)** the local police force or the Royal Canadian Mounted Police detachment that is responsible for providing policing services to that area.

**Content of notice**

- **(2)** The notice must contain the following information:
	- **(a)** the name of the applicant;
	- **(b)** the date on which the applicant will submit the application to the Minister;
	- **(c)** the activities referred to in subsection 12(1) for which the licence is to be sought, specifying that they are to be conducted in respect of cannabis; and
	- **(d)** the address of the site and, if applicable, of each building within the site at which the applicant proposes to conduct those activities.

**Senior official**

- **(3)** The notice must be addressed to a senior official of the local authority to whom it is sent.




**Notice to local authorities — amendment application**

**39** 

- **(1)** Before submitting a licence amendment application to the Minister under section 29 concerning a change referred to in subsection (2), a licensed producer must provide a written notice to the persons referred to in paragraphs 38(1)(a) to (c) in the area in which the site to be specified in the amended licence is located.

**Applicable changes**

- **(2)** Subsection (1) applies in respect of an application to amend a licence to change
	- **(a)** the name of the licensed producer;
	- **(b)** the activities to be conducted by the producer under the licence; or
	- **(c)** the address of the site and, if applicable, of each building within the site at which those activities are to be conducted.

**Content of notice**

- **(3)** The notice must contain the following information:
	- **(a)** the name of the licensed producer and, if applicable, the proposed new name of the producer;
	- **(b)** the date on which the producer will submit the application to the Minister;
	- **(c)** the activities referred to in subsection 12(1) that are to be set out in the amended licence, specifying that they are to be conducted in respect of cannabis; and
	- **(d)** the address of the site and, if applicable, of each building within the site that is to be set out in the amended licence.

**Senior official**

- **(4)** The notice must be addressed to a senior official of the local authority to whom it is sent.




**Notice to local authorities — various matters**

**40** 

- **(1)** Within 30 days after the issuance, renewal, amendment, suspension, reinstatement or revocation of its licence, a licensed producer must provide a written notice to the persons referred to in paragraphs 38(1)(a) to (c) in the area in which the site specified in the licence is located and provide a copy of the notice to the Minister.

**Content of notice**

- **(2)** The notice must contain the following information:
	- **(a)** the name of the licensed producer and the address of their site; and
	- **(b)** a description of the applicable matter referred to in subsection (1) and its effective date and, in the case of an amendment to the licence, details of the amendment.

**Senior official**

- **(3)** The notice must be addressed to a senior official of the local authority to whom it is sent.




**DIVISION 3** 
### Security Measures



#### General



**Compliance with security measures**

**41** A licensed producer must ensure that the security measures set out in this Division are carried out.




**Unauthorized access**

**42** The licensed producer’s site must be designed in a manner that prevents unauthorized access.




#### Perimeter of Site



**Visual monitoring**

**43** 

- **(1)** The perimeter of the licensed producer’s site must be visually monitored at all times by visual recording devices to detect any attempted or actual unauthorized access.

**Visual recording devices**

- **(2)** The devices must, in the conditions under which they are used, be capable of recording in a visible manner any attempted or actual unauthorized access.




**Intrusion detection system**

**44** The perimeter of the licensed producer’s site must be secured by an intrusion detection system that operates at all times and that allows for the detection of any attempted or actual unauthorized access to or movement in the site or tampering with the system.




**Monitoring by personnel**

**45** 

- **(1)** The system must be monitored at all times by personnel who must determine the appropriate steps to be taken in response to the detection of any occurrence referred to in section 43 or 44.

**Record of detected matters**

- **(2)** If any such occurrence is detected, the personnel must make a record of
	- **(a)** the date and time of the occurrence; and
	- **(b)** the measures taken in response to it and the date and time when they were taken.




#### Areas Within a Site where Cannabis is Present



**Restricted access**

**46** 

- **(1)** Access to areas within a site where cannabis is present (referred to in sections 46 to 50 as “those areas”) must be restricted to persons whose presence in those areas is required by their work responsibilities.

**Responsible person in charge present**

- **(2)** The responsible person in charge or, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge must be physically present while other persons are in those areas.

**Record**

- **(3)** A record must be made of the identity of every person entering or exiting those areas.




**Physical barriers**

**47** Those areas must include physical barriers that prevent unauthorized access.




**Visual monitoring**

**48** 

- **(1)** Those areas must be visually monitored at all times by visual recording devices to detect illicit conduct.

**Visual recording devices**

- **(2)** The devices must, in the conditions under which they are used, be capable of recording in a visible manner illicit conduct.




**Intrusion detection system**

**49** Those areas must be secured by an intrusion detection system that operates at all times and that allows for the detection of any attempted or actual unauthorized access to or movement in those areas or tampering with the system.




**Filtration of air**

**50** Those areas must be equipped with a system that filters air to prevent the escape of odours and, if present, pollen.




**Monitoring by personnel**

**51** 

- **(1)** The intrusion detection system must be monitored at all times by personnel who must determine the appropriate steps to be taken in response to the detection of any occurrence referred to in section 48 or 49.

**Record of detected matters**

- **(2)** If any such occurrence is detected, the personnel must make a record of
	- **(a)** the date and time of the occurrence; and
	- **(b)** the measures taken in response to it and the date and time when they were taken.




**DIVISION 4** 
### Good Production Practices



**Prohibition — sale or provision**

**52** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must not sell or provide dried marihuana under subsection 12(4) unless the requirements of this Division have been met.

**Prohibition — export**

- **(2)** A licensed producer must not export dried marihuana unless the requirements of this Division have been met.




**Microbial and chemical contaminants**

**53** 

- **(1)** The microbial and chemical contaminants of dried marihuana must be within generally accepted tolerance limits for herbal medicines for human consumption, as established in any publication referred to in Schedule B to the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md).

**Analytical testing**

- **(2)** Analytical testing for those contaminants and for the percentages of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol referred to in these Regulations must be conducted using validated methods.




**Pest control product**

**54** 

- **(1)** Marihuana must not be treated — before, during or after the drying process — with a pest control product that has not been registered under the [Pest Control Products Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2028.md) for use on marihuana for medical purposes.

**Residue**

- **(2)** Dried marihuana must not contain any residue of a pest control product in excess of any maximum residue limit specified for the product under section 9 of the [Pest Control Products Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2028.md).




**Premises**

**55** 

- **(1)** Dried marihuana must be produced, packaged, labelled and stored in premises that are designed, constructed and maintained in a manner that permits those activities to be conducted under sanitary conditions, and in particular that
	- **(a)** permits the premises to be kept clean and orderly;
	- **(b)** permits the effective cleaning of all surfaces in the premises;
	- **(c)** permits the dried marihuana to be stored or processed appropriately;
	- **(d)** prevents the contamination of the dried marihuana; and
	- **(e)** prevents the addition of an extraneous substance to the dried marihuana.

**Storage**

- **(2)** Dried marihuana must be stored under conditions that will maintain its quality.




**Equipment**

**56** Dried marihuana must be produced, packaged, labelled and stored using equipment that is designed, constructed, maintained, operated and arranged in a manner that
- **(a)** permits the effective cleaning of its surfaces;
- **(b)** permits it to function in accordance with its intended use;
- **(c)** prevents it from contaminating the dried marihuana; and
- **(d)** prevents it from adding an extraneous substance to the dried marihuana.




**Sanitation program**

**57** Dried marihuana must be produced, packaged, labelled and stored in accordance with a sanitation program that sets out
- **(a)** procedures for effectively cleaning the premises in which those activities are conducted;
- **(b)** procedures for effectively cleaning the equipment used in those activities;
- **(c)** procedures for handling any substance used in those activities; and
- **(d)** all requirements, in respect of the health, the hygienic behaviour and the clothing of the personnel who are involved in those activities, that are necessary to ensure that those activities are conducted in sanitary conditions.




**Standard operating procedures**

**58** Dried marihuana must be produced, packaged, labelled and stored in accordance with standard operating procedures that are designed to ensure that those activities are conducted in accordance with the requirements of this Division.




**Recall**

**59** A licensed producer must establish and maintain a system of control that permits the rapid and complete recall of every lot or batch of dried marihuana that has been made available for sale.




**Quality assurance**

**60** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must
	- **(a)** have a quality assurance person who
		- **(i)** is responsible for assuring the quality of the dried marihuana before it is made available for sale, and
		- **(ii)** has the training, experience and technical knowledge relating to the activity conducted and the requirements of this Division; and
	- **(b)** investigate every complaint received in respect of the quality of the dried marihuana and, if necessary, take corrective and preventative measures.

**Methods and procedures**

- **(2)** Dried marihuana must be produced, packaged, labelled and stored using methods and procedures that, prior to their implementation, have been approved by a quality assurance person.

**Approval prior to sale**

- **(3)** Every lot or batch of dried marihuana must be approved by a quality assurance person before it is made available for sale.

**Returns**

- **(4)** Dried marihuana that is sold or provided under subsection 12(4) and subsequently returned to the licensed producer must not be resold or provided again.




**Sample of lot or batch**

**61** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (3), if the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that a lot or batch of dried marihuana made available for sale or provision by a licensed producer may — by reason of the manner in which it was produced, packaged, labelled or stored — pose a risk to the health of an individual who in accordance with these Regulations obtains the dried marihuana for their own medical purposes, the Minister may require the licensed producer to provide the Minister with a sample of that lot or batch.

**Quantity**

- **(2)** The sample must be of sufficient quantity to enable a determination of whether the lot or batch of dried marihuana meets the requirements of sections 53 and 54.

**Period**

- **(3)** The Minister must not require a sample to be provided if more than one year has elapsed after the date of the last sale or provision of any portion of the lot or batch of dried marihuana.




**Recall reporting**

**62** A licensed producer who commences a recall of dried marihuana must provide the Minister with the following information in respect of the recalled dried marihuana within three days after the day on which the recall is commenced:
- **(a)** its brand name;
- **(b)** the number of each lot or batch recalled;
- **(c)** if known by the licensed producer, the name and address of each licensed producer who imported or produced any of it;
- **(d)** the reasons for commencing the recall;
- **(e)** the quantity produced or imported into Canada by the licensed producer;
- **(f)** the quantity that was sold or provided in Canada by the licensed producer;
- **(g)** the quantity remaining in the possession of the licensed producer;
- **(h)** the number of persons referred to in subsections 12(2) and (4) to whom it was sold or provided by the licensed producer; and
- **(i)** a description of any other action that the licensed producer is taking in respect of the recall.




**Adverse reactions**

**63** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana must provide the Minister with a case report for each serious adverse reaction to the dried marihuana, within 15 days after the day on which the producer becomes aware of the reaction.

**Summary report**

- **(2)** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana must annually prepare and maintain a summary report that contains a concise and critical analysis of all adverse reactions to the dried marihuana that have occurred during the previous 12 months.

**Provide Minister with report on request**

- **(3)** If, after reviewing a case report provided under subsection (1) or after reviewing any other safety data relating to the dried marihuana, the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that the dried marihuana may — by reason of the manner in which it was produced, packaged, labelled or stored — pose a risk to the health of an individual who in accordance with these Regulations obtains the dried marihuana for their own medical purposes, the Minister may request that, within 30 days after the day on which the request is received, the licensed producer
	- **(a)** provide the Minister with a copy of any summary report prepared under subsection (2); or
	- **(b)** prepare and provide the Minister with an interim summary report containing a concise and critical analysis of all adverse reactions to the dried marihuana that have occurred since the date of the most recent summary report prepared under subsection (2).

**Definitions**

- **(4)** The following definitions apply in this section.

***adverse reaction*** means a noxious and unintended response to dried marihuana.

***case report*** means a detailed record of all relevant data associated with the use of dried marihuana by a person.

***serious adverse reaction*** means a noxious and unintended response to dried marihuana that requires in-patient hospitalization or a prolongation of existing hospitalization, that causes congenital malformation, that results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, that is life threatening or that results in death.




**DIVISION 5** 
### Packaging, Labelling and Shipping



**Packaging**

**64** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana under subsection 12(4) must ensure that
- **(a)** the dried marihuana is packaged in an immediate container
	- **(i)** that is in direct contact with the dried marihuana,
	- **(ii)** that keeps the dried marihuana dry and free from contamination,
	- **(iii)** that has a security feature that provides reasonable assurance to consumers that the container has not been opened prior to receipt, and
	- **(iv)** that is a child resistant package that meets the requirements of subsections C.01.001(2) to (4) of the [Food and Drug Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/801-900/C.R.C.,%20c.%20870.md); and
- **(b)** not more than 30 g of dried marihuana is in the immediate container.




**Weight of dried marihuana**

**65** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana under subsection 12(4) must ensure that the net weight of the dried marihuana in the immediate container is not less than 95% and not more than 101% of the net weight specified on the label in accordance with subparagraph 66(c)(v).




**Product label**

**66** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana under subsection 12(4) must ensure that the immediate container carries a label that contains the following information:
- **(a)** the name of that licensed producer and the address of their site;
- **(b)** the words “Dried marihuana / *Marihuana séchée*”;
- **(c)** in respect of the dried marihuana in the container:
	- **(i)** its brand name,
	- **(ii)** its lot number, preceded by one of the following designations:
		- **(A)** “Lot number”,
		- **(B)** “Lot no.”,
		- **(C)** “Lot”, or
		- **(D)** “(L)”,
	- **(iii)** the percentage of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol w/w, followed by the word “delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol”,
	- **(iv)** the percentage of cannabidiol w/w, followed by the word “cannabidiol”,
	- **(v)** its net weight, in grams,
	- **(vi)** its recommended storage conditions,
	- **(vii)** its packaging date, and
	- **(viii)** either
		- **(A)** its expiry date, if a stability period for the dried marihuana has been established in accordance with section 71, or
		- **(B)** a statement to the effect that no expiry date based on stability data has been determined for the dried marihuana;
- **(d)** the symbol “N” set out in the upper left corner of the label in a colour contrasting with the rest of the label or in type not less than half the size of any other letters used on the label;
- **(e)** the warning “KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN / *TENIR HORS DE LA PORTÉE DES ENFANTS*”; and
- **(f)** the statement “Important: Please read the Health Canada document provided with this package before using dried marihuana. / *Important : Veuillez lire le document de Santé Canada qui accompagne ce colis avant d’utiliser la marihuana séchée.*”.




**Client label**

**67** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana to a client or an individual who is responsible for the client must ensure that
- **(a)** the immediate container carries a label that contains the following information:
	- **(i)** the given name and surname of the client,
	- **(ii)** the given name, surname and profession of the health care practitioner who provided the client’s medical document,
	- **(iii)** the name of the licensed producer,
	- **(iv)** the daily quantity of dried marihuana indicated on the client’s medical document, expressed in grams,
	- **(v)** the expiry date of the client’s registration referred to in section 112,
	- **(vi)** the shipping date, and
	- **(vii)** the date referred to in subsection 124(2); and
- **(b)** a separate document containing the information referred to in paragraph (a) accompanies each shipment of the dried marihuana.




**Combined label**

**68** In the case of dried marihuana to be sold or provided to a client or an individual who is responsible for the client, the information required under section 66 and paragraph 67(a) may be set out on one label.




**Department of Health document**

**69** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana under subsection 12(4) must ensure that each shipment of the dried marihuana is accompanied by a copy of the current version of the document entitled Information on the Use of Marihuana for Medical Purposes, published by the Department of Health.




**Presentation of information — label**

**70** 

- **(1)** All information that is required under section 66 and paragraph 67(a) to appear on a label must be
	- **(a)** in English and in French;
	- **(b)** clearly and prominently displayed on the label; and
	- **(c)** readily discernible under the customary conditions of use.

**Presentation of information — document**

- **(2)** All information in a document that is required under paragraph 67(b) or section 69 must be in English and in French and readily discernible under the customary conditions of use.




**Expiry date**

**71** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must not include an expiry date on a label referred to in section 66 unless
	- **(a)** the licensed producer has submitted data to the Minister that establishes the stability period during which, after the dried marihuana is packaged in accordance with section 64 and when it is stored under its recommended storage conditions referred to in subparagraph 66(c)(vi),
		- **(i)** the dried marihuana maintains not less than 80% and not more than 120% of the percentages of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol w/w and cannabidiol w/w indicated on the label in accordance with subparagraphs 66(c)(iii) and (iv), and
		- **(ii)** the microbial and chemical contaminants of the dried marihuana remain within the limits referred to in subsection 53(1); and
	- **(b)** in the opinion of the Minister the data submitted by the licensed producer meets the requirements of paragraph (a) and has notified the producer to that effect.

**Definition of expiry date**

- **(2)** For the purpose of subsection (1) and subparagraph 66(c)(viii), ***expiry date*** means the date, expressed at minimum as a year and month, that is the end of the stability period.




**Reference to Acts or regulations**

**72** It is prohibited to include a reference, direct or indirect, to the Act, the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md) or any regulations made under those Acts on a label of or in an advertisement for dried marihuana unless the reference is a specific requirement of either of those Acts or those regulations.




**Shipping**

**73** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer who ships dried marihuana to a person referred to in subsection 12(2) or (4) must
	- **(a)** ship the marihuana in only one shipment per order;
	- **(b)** prepare the package in a manner that ensures the security of its contents, such that
		- **(i)** the package will not open or permit the escape of its contents during handling and transportation,
		- **(ii)** it is sealed so that it cannot be opened without the seal being broken,
		- **(iii)** it prevents the escape of marihuana odour, and
		- **(iv)** it prevents its contents from being identified without it being opened;
	- **(c)** use a shipping method that ensures the tracking and safekeeping of the package during transportation;
	- **(d)** ship it only to the following address:
		- **(i)** in the case of a client or an individual who is responsible for that client, the shipping address specified in the client’s registration document referred to in paragraph 111(2)(a), and
		- **(ii)** in the case of any other person referred to in subsection 12(2) or (4), the shipping address indicated in the order referred to in section 131; and
	- **(e)** in the case of a client or an individual who is responsible for that client, ship the marihuana in a quantity that does not exceed 150 g.

**Shipping — cannabis other than dried marihuana**

- **(2)** A licensed producer who ships cannabis other than dried marihuana to a person referred to in subsection 12(2) must
	- **(a)** use a shipping method referred to in paragraph (1)(c); and
	- **(b)** ship it only to the shipping address indicated in the order referred to in section 131.




**DIVISION 6** 
### Import and Export



**Application for import permit**

**74** 

- **(1)** To apply for a permit to import marihuana, a licensed producer must submit the following information to the Minister:
	- **(a)** their name, address and licence number;
	- **(b)** in respect of the marihuana to be imported,
		- **(i)** an indication of whether it is in the form of seeds, plants or dried marihuana,
		- **(ii)** its intended use,
		- **(iii)** if applicable, its brand name,
		- **(iv)** its quantity, and
		- **(v)** in the case of dried marihuana, its percentages of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol w/w and cannabidiol w/w;
	- **(c)** the name and address of the exporter in the country of export from whom the marihuana is being obtained;
	- **(d)** the port of entry into Canada;
	- **(e)** the address of the customs office, sufferance warehouse or bonded warehouse to which the marihuana is to be delivered; and
	- **(f)** each mode of transportation used, the country of export and, if applicable, any country of transit or transhipment.

**Statement by signatory**

- **(2)** An application for an import permit must
	- **(a)** be signed and dated by the responsible person in charge or, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge at the licensed producer’s site; and
	- **(b)** include a statement, signed and dated by that person, indicating that all information submitted in support of the application is correct and complete to the best of the signatory’s knowledge.




**Issuance of import permit**

**75** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 76, the Minister must, after examining the information and documents required under section 74 and, if applicable, section 8, issue to the licensed producer an import permit that indicates:
	- **(a)** the permit number;
	- **(b)** the information referred to in paragraphs 74(1)(a) to (f);
	- **(c)** the effective date of the permit;
	- **(d)** its expiry date, which is the earlier of
		- **(i)** the 180th day after the effective date, and
		- **(ii)** December 31 of the year of the effective date; and
	- **(e)** if applicable, any conditions that the permit holder must meet in order to
		- **(i)** comply with an international obligation, or
		- **(ii)** reduce any potential public health, safety or security risk, including the risk of the marihuana being diverted to an illicit market or use.

**Duration of permit**

- **(2)** An import permit is valid until the earliest of
	- **(a)** its expiry date or the date on which it is suspended or revoked under section 80 or 81,
	- **(b)** the expiry date of the producer’s licence to which the permit pertains or the date on which the that licence is suspended or revoked, and
	- **(c)** the expiry date of the export permit that applies to the marihuana to be imported and that is issued by a competent authority in the country of export or the date on which that permit is suspended or revoked.

**Validity**

- **(3)** A permit issued under this section is valid only for the importation in respect of which it is issued.




**Refusal to issue import permit**

**76** The Minister must refuse to issue an import permit if
- **(a)** in respect of the application for the permit, there exists a circumstance described in paragraph 26(1)(d), (e), (f) or (h), with any modifications that the circumstances require;
- **(b)** the applicant does not hold a producer’s licence with respect to the marihuana that is to be imported;
- **(c)** the applicant has been notified that one of the following applications submitted by the applicant in respect of the producer’s licence to which the requested permit pertains is to be refused under section 26:
	- **(i)** an application under section 23 for a producer’s licence,
	- **(ii)** an application under section 28 for the renewal of a producer’s licence, or
	- **(iii)** an application under section 29 for the amendment of a producer’s licence; or
- **(d)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that
	- **(i)** the shipment for which the permit is requested would contravene the laws of the country of export or any country of transit or transhipment, or
	- **(ii)** the importation is for the purpose of re-exporting the marihuana.




**Provision of copy of import permit**

**77** On request of a customs officer, the holder of an import permit must provide a copy of the permit to the customs office, sufferance warehouse or bonded warehouse, as the case may be, at the port of entry into Canada at the time of importation.




**Declaration after release from customs**

**78** The holder of an import permit must provide the Minister, within 15 days after the day of release, in accordance with the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), of a shipment that contains marihuana, with a declaration that contains the following information:
- **(a)** the name of the licensed producer and the numbers of the producer’s licence and import permit in respect of the shipment;
- **(b)** the date of release of the shipment; and
- **(c)** in respect of the marihuana received,
	- **(i)** an indication of whether it is in the form of seeds, plants or dried marihuana,
	- **(ii)** its intended use,
	- **(iii)** if applicable, its brand name,
	- **(iv)** its quantity, and
	- **(v)** in the case of dried marihuana, its percentages of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol w/w and cannabidiol w/w.




**Transportation of marihuana**

**79** The holder of an import permit must ensure that, after the imported marihuana clears customs, it is transported directly to the site specified in their producer’s licence.




**Suspension of import permit**

**80** 

- **(1)** The Minister must suspend an import permit without prior notice if
	- **(a)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that it is necessary to do so to protect public health, safety or security, including preventing the marihuana from being diverted to an illicit market or use; or
	- **(b)** the importation would contravene the laws of any country of transit or transhipment.

**Notice of suspension**

- **(2)** The suspension takes effect as soon as the Minister notifies the permit holder of the decision to suspend and provides a written report that sets out the reasons for the suspension.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(3)** The permit holder may, within 10 days after receipt of the notice, provide the Minister with reasons why the suspension is unfounded.




**Revocation of import permit**

**81** 

- **(1)** The Minister must revoke an import permit
	- **(a)** at the request of the holder;
	- **(b)** if the holder informs the Minister that the permit has been lost or stolen; or
	- **(c)** if the permit is being replaced by a new permit.

**Other revocation circumstances**

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), the Minister must revoke an import permit in the following circumstances:
	- **(a)** there exists a circumstance described in any of paragraphs 36(1)(a) to (e) in respect of the producer’s licence pertaining to the permit;
	- **(b)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that the import permit was issued on the basis of false or misleading information or false or falsified documents submitted in or with the application for the permit; or
	- **(c)** the importation is for the purpose of re-exporting the marihuana.

**Exceptions**

- **(3)** Unless it is necessary to do so to protect public health, safety or security, including preventing the marihuana from being diverted to an illicit market or use, the Minister must not revoke an import permit in the circumstances described in paragraph (2)(b) or 36(1)(a) or (b) if the permit holder has carried out, or signed an undertaking to carry out, the necessary corrective measures to ensure compliance with the Act and its regulations and the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md).

**Failure to comply with undertaking**

- **(4)** If the licensed producer fails to comply with an undertaking mentioned in subsection (3), the Minister must revoke the permit.

**Revocation following suspension**

- **(5)** The Minister must revoke a permit if the licensed producer fails to comply with the decision of the Minister to suspend the permit under section 80 or if the situation giving rise to the suspension is not rectified.




**Application for export permit**

**82** 

- **(1)** To apply for a permit to export marihuana, a licensed producer must submit the following information and statements to the Minister:
	- **(a)** their name, address and licence number;
	- **(b)** in respect of the marihuana to be exported,
		- **(i)** an indication of whether it is in the form of seeds, plants or dried marihuana,
		- **(ii)** its intended use,
		- **(iii)** if applicable, its brand name,
		- **(iv)** the quantity to be exported, and
		- **(v)** its percentages of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol w/w and cannabidiol w/w;
	- **(c)** the name and address of the importer in the country of final destination;
	- **(d)** the port of exit from Canada and, if applicable, any country of transit or transhipment;
	- **(e)** the address of the customs office, sufferance warehouse or bonded warehouse at which the shipment is to be presented for export;
	- **(f)** each mode of transportation used; and
	- **(g)** a statement that, to the best of their knowledge, the shipment does not contravene the laws of the country of final destination or any country of transit or transhipment.

**Accompanying document**

- **(2)** An application for an export permit must be accompanied by a copy of the import permit issued by a competent authority in the country of final destination that sets out the name and address of the site of the importer in the country of final destination.

**Statement by signatory**

- **(3)** An application for an export permit must
	- **(a)** be signed and dated by the responsible person in charge or, if applicable, the alternate responsible person in charge at the licensed producer’s site; and
	- **(b)** include a statement, signed and dated by that person, indicating that all information submitted in support of the application is correct and complete to the best of the signatory’s knowledge.




**Issuance of export permit**

**83** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 84, the Minister must, after examining the information and documents required under section 82 and, if applicable, section 8, issue an export permit to the licensed producer that indicates:
	- **(a)** the permit number;
	- **(b)** the information referred to in paragraphs 82(1)(a) to (f);
	- **(c)** the effective date of the permit;
	- **(d)** its expiry date, which is the earliest of
		- **(i)** the 120th day after the effective date,
		- **(ii)** December 31 of the year of the effective date, and
		- **(iii)** the expiry date of the import permit issued by a competent authority in the country of final destination; and
	- **(e)** if applicable, any conditions that the permit holder must meet in order to
		- **(i)** comply with an international obligation, or
		- **(ii)** reduce any potential public health, safety or security risk, including the risk of the marihuana being diverted to an illicit market or use.

**Duration of permit**

- **(2)** An export permit is valid until the earliest of
	- **(a)** its expiry date or the date on which it is suspended or revoked under section 87 or 88,
	- **(b)** the expiry date of the producer’s licence to which the permit pertains or the date on which the that licence is suspended or revoked, and
	- **(c)** the expiry date of the import permit that applies to the marihuana to be exported and that is issued by a competent authority in the country of final destination or the date on which that permit is suspended or revoked.

**Validity**

- **(3)** A permit issued under this section is valid only for the exportation in respect of which it is issued.




**Refusal to issue export permit**

**84** The Minister must refuse to issue an export permit if
- **(a)** in respect of the application for the permit, there exists a circumstance described in paragraph 26(1)(d), (e) or (h), with any modifications that the circumstances require;
- **(b)** the applicant does not hold a producer’s licence in respect of the marihuana to be exported;
- **(c)** the applicant has been notified that one of the following applications submitted by the applicant in respect of the producer’s licence to which the requested permit pertains is to be refused under section 26:
	- **(i)** an application made under section 23 for a producer’s licence,
	- **(ii)** an application made under section 28 for the renewal of a producer’s licence, or
	- **(iii)** an application made under section 29 for the amendment of a producer’s licence;
- **(d)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that the shipment for which the permit is requested would contravene the laws of the country of final destination or any country of transit or transhipment; or
- **(e)** the shipment would not be in conformity with the import permit issued by a competent authority of the country of final destination.




**Provision of copy of export permit**

**85** On request of a customs officer, the holder of an export permit must provide a copy of the permit to the customs office, sufferance warehouse or bonded warehouse, as the case may be, at the port of exit from Canada at the time of exportation.




**Declaration after export**

**86** The holder of an export permit must provide the Minister, within 15 days after the day on which a shipment that contains marihuana is exported, with a declaration that contains the following information:
- **(a)** the name of the licensed producer and the numbers of the producer’s licence and export permit in respect of the shipment;
- **(b)** the date of export;
- **(c)** in respect of the exported marihuana,
	- **(i)** an indication as to whether it is in the form of seeds, plants or dried marihuana,
	- **(ii)** its intended use,
	- **(iii)** if applicable, its brand name, and
	- **(iv)** its quantity.




**Suspension of export permit**

**87** 

- **(1)** The Minister must suspend an export permit without prior notice if
	- **(a)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that it is necessary to do so to protect public health, safety or security, including preventing the marihuana from being diverted to an illicit market or use;
	- **(b)** the exportation is not in conformity with an import permit issued by a competent authority of the country of final destination; or
	- **(c)** the exportation would contravene the laws of the country of final destination or any country of transit or transhipment.

**Notice of suspension**

- **(2)** The suspension takes effect as soon as the Minister notifies the permit holder of the decision to suspend and provides a written report that sets out the reasons for the suspension.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(3)** The permit holder may, within 10 days after receipt of the notice, provide the Minister with reasons why the suspension is unfounded.




**Revocation of export permit**

**88** 

- **(1)** The Minister must revoke an export permit
	- **(a)** at the request of the holder;
	- **(b)** if the holder informs the Minister that the permit has been lost or stolen; or
	- **(c)** if the permit is being replaced by a new permit.

**Other revocation circumstances**

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), the Minister must revoke an export permit in the following circumstances:
	- **(a)** there exists a circumstance described in any of paragraphs 36(1)(a) to (e) in respect of the producer’s licence to which the permit pertains; or
	- **(b)** the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that the export permit was issued on the basis of false or misleading information or false or falsified documents submitted in or with the application.

**Exceptions**

- **(3)** Unless it is necessary to do so to protect public health, safety or security, including preventing the marihuana from being diverted to an illicit market or use, the Minister must not revoke an export permit in the circumstances described in paragraph (2)(b) or 36(1)(a) or (b) if the permit holder has carried out, or signed an undertaking to carry out, the necessary corrective measures to ensure compliance with the Act and its regulations and the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md).

**Failure to comply with undertaking**

- **(4)** If the licensed producer fails to comply with an undertaking mentioned in subsection (3), the Minister must revoke the permit.

**Revocation following suspension**

- **(5)** The Minister must revoke a permit if the licensed producer fails to comply with the decision of the Minister to suspend the permit under section 87 or if the situation giving rise to the suspension is not rectified.




**DIVISION 7** 
### Security Clearances



**Eligibility**

**89** Only the following persons may submit to the Minister an application for a security clearance:
- **(a)** a person named in an application for a producer’s licence as
	- **(i)** the proposed senior person in charge,
	- **(ii)** the proposed responsible person in charge, or
	- **(iii)** if applicable, the proposed alternate responsible person in charge;
- **(b)** if a producer’s licence is sought by an individual, that individual;
- **(c)** if a producer’s licence is sought by a corporation, each officer and director of the corporation;
- **(d)** a person referred to in any of subparagraphs 30(1)(a)(i) to (iii); and
- **(e)** the holder of a security clearance who is seeking to obtain a new security clearance before the end of the validity period of their current clearance.




**Application for security clearance**

**90** 

- **(1)** An application for a security clearance must include the following information and documentation, to be used only for the purposes of sections 91 and 92:
	- **(a)** the applicant’s usual given name used, other given names, surname, all other names used and details of any name changes;
	- **(b)** the applicant’s date of birth, gender, height, weight, and eye and hair colour;
	- **(c)** if the applicant was born in Canada, the number and province of issue of their birth certificate;
	- **(d)** if the applicant was born outside Canada, their place of birth, the port and date of entry into Canada, and, in the case of a naturalized Canadian or permanent resident, the number of the applicable certificate issued under the [Citizenship Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-29.md) or the [Immigration and Refugee Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2027.md);
	- **(e)** either of the following documents:
		- **(i)** a copy of a valid piece of photo identification of the applicant issued by the government of Canada or of a province, or
		- **(ii)** a copy of the applicant’s passport that includes the passport number, country of issue, expiry date and the applicant’s photograph;
	- **(f)** the addresses of all locations at which the applicant resided during the five years preceding the application;
	- **(g)** an identification of the applicant’s activities during the five years preceding the application, including the names and addresses of the applicant’s employers and any post-secondary educational institutions attended;
	- **(h)** the dates, destination and purpose of any travel of more than 90 days outside Canada, excluding travel for government business, during the five years preceding the application;
	- **(i)** the information referred to in subsection (2) respecting
		- **(i)** the applicant’s spouse or common-law partner, and
		- **(ii)** any former spouses or common-law partners with whom the relationship ended within the preceding five years;
	- **(j)** the applicant’s fingerprints, taken by a Canadian police force or by a private company that is accredited by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to submit fingerprints to it for the purpose of a criminal record check; and
	- **(k)** a statement signed and dated by the licensed producer or the applicant for a producer’s licence certifying that the applicant for the security clearance requires or will require a security clearance and specifying the reasons for that requirement.

**Spouse or common-law partner**

- **(2)** The information required in respect of any of the persons referred to in paragraph (1)(i) is
	- **(a)** in the case of the applicant’s spouse or common-law partner, the following information:
		- **(i)** their gender, full given name, surname and, if applicable, maiden name,
		- **(ii)** their date and place of birth and, if applicable, date of death,
		- **(iii)** if born in Canada, the number and province of issue of their birth certificate,
		- **(iv)** if born outside Canada, their place of birth, their nationality and the port and date of entry into Canada, and
		- **(v)** their present address, if known; and
	- **(b)** in the case of former spouses and common-law partners with whom the relationship ended within the preceding five years, the information referred to in subparagraphs (a)(i), (ii) and (v).

**Signed by applicant**

- **(3)** The application for a security clearance must be signed and dated by the applicant.

**Definition of common-law partner**

- **(4)** In this section, ***common-law partner*** means any person who is cohabiting with the applicant in a relationship of a conjugal nature and has done so for a period of at least one year.




**Checks**

**91** On receipt of a fully completed application for a security clearance, the Minister must conduct the following checks for the purpose of assessing whether an applicant poses a risk to the integrity of the control of the production and distribution of cannabis under the Act and its regulations, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use:
- **(a)** a criminal record check in respect of the applicant; and
- **(b)** a check of the relevant files of law enforcement agencies, including intelligence gathered for law enforcement purposes.




**Minister’s decisions**

**92** The Minister may grant a security clearance if, in the opinion of the Minister, the information provided by the applicant and that resulting from the checks is reliable and is sufficient for the Minister to determine, by taking into account the following factors, that the applicant does not pose an unacceptable risk to the integrity of the control of the production and distribution of cannabis under the Act and its regulations, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use:
- **(a)** whether the applicant has been found guilty as an adult, in the past 10 years, of
	- **(i)** a designated drug offence as defined in section 2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md),
	- **(ii)** a designated criminal offence as defined in that section, or
	- **(iii)** an offence committed outside Canada that, if committed in Canada, would have constituted an offence referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii);
- **(b)** whether it is known or there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the applicant
	- **(i)** is or has been involved in, or contributes or has contributed to, illicit activities directed toward or in support of the trafficking or diversion of controlled substances or precursors,
	- **(ii)** is or has been a member of a criminal organization as defined in subsection 467.1(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), or participates or has participated in, or contributes or has contributed to, the activities of such an organization as referred to in subsection 467.11(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md),
	- **(iii)** is or has been a member of an organization that is known to be involved in or to contribute to — or in respect of which there are reasonable grounds to suspect involvement in or contribution to — activities directed toward or in support of the threat of or the use of acts of violence against persons or property, or is or has been involved in, or is contributing to or has contributed to, the activities of such an organization, or
	- **(iv)** is or has been associated with an individual who is known to be involved in or to contribute to — or in respect of whom there are reasonable grounds to suspect involvement in or contribution to — activities referred to in subparagraph (i), or is a member of an organization referred to in subparagraph (ii) or (iii);
- **(c)** whether there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the applicant is in a position in which there is a risk that they be induced to commit an act or to aid or abet any person to commit an act that might constitute a risk to the integrity of the control of the production and distribution of cannabis under the Act and its regulations, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use;
- **(d)** whether the applicant has had a security clearance cancelled; and
- **(e)** whether the applicant has submitted false or misleading information or false or falsified documents in or with their application for a security clearance.




**Outstanding criminal charge**

**93** If there is an outstanding criminal charge against the applicant that could, if the applicant were found guilty, be taken into account by the Minister under paragraph 92(a), the Minister may decline to process the application until the charge has been disposed of by the courts, in which case the Minister must notify the applicant in writing.




**Refusal to grant security clearance**

**94** 

- **(1)** If the Minister intends to refuse to grant a security clearance, the Minister must notify the applicant in writing to that effect.

**Content of notice**

- **(2)** The notice must set out the basis for the Minister’s intention and fix a period of time within which the applicant may make written representations to the Minister, which period of time must start on the day on which the notice is served or sent and must be not less than 20 days.

**Opportunity to make written representations**

- **(3)** The Minister must not refuse to grant a security clearance until the written representations have been received and considered or before the period of time fixed in the notice has expired, whichever comes first. The Minister must notify the applicant in writing of any refusal.




**Validity period**

**95** 

- **(1)** The Minister must establish a period of validity for a security clearance in accordance with the level of risk posed by the applicant as determined under section 92, but the period must not exceed five years.

**Extension of period**

- **(2)** If the validity period is less than five years, the Minister may extend the period to a total of five years if the Minister determines under section 92 that the holder does not pose an unacceptable risk to the integrity of the control of the production and distribution of cannabis under the Act and its regulations, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use.




**Security clearance no longer required**

**96** A licensed producer must notify the Minister in writing not later than five days after the holder of a security clearance is no longer required by these Regulations to hold a security clearance. The Minister must then cancel the clearance.




**Suspension of security clearance**

**97** 

- **(1)** The Minister may suspend a security clearance on receipt of information that could change the Minister’s determination made under section 92.

**Written notice to holder**

- **(2)** Immediately after suspending a security clearance, the Minister must notify the holder in writing of the suspension.

**Content of notice**

- **(3)** The notice must set out the basis for the suspension and must fix a period of time within which the holder may make written representations to the Minister, which period of time must start on the day on which the notice is served or sent and must be not less than 20 days.

**Reinstatement of clearance**

- **(4)** The Minister may reinstate the security clearance if the Minister determines under section 92 that the holder does not pose an unacceptable risk to the integrity of the control of the production and distribution of cannabis under the Act and its regulations, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use.

**Cancellation of clearance**

- **(5)** The Minister may cancel the security clearance if the Minister determines under section 92 that the holder may pose an unacceptable risk to the integrity of the control of the production and distribution of cannabis under the Act and its regulations, including the risk of cannabis being diverted to an illicit market or use. The Minister must notify the holder in writing of any cancellation.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(6)** The Minister must not cancel the security clearance until the written representations referred to in subsection (3) have been received and considered or before the time period fixed in the notice referred to in that subsection has expired, whichever comes first.




**New applications**

**98** If the Minister refuses to grant or cancels a security clearance, an applicant may submit a new application only if
- **(a)** a period of five years has elapsed after the day on which the refusal or cancellation occurs; or
- **(b)** a change has occurred in the circumstances that led to the refusal or cancellation.




**Sending of notices by Minister**

**99** The Minister must send any notice to be given under this Division to the person at their last known address by using a method of sending that involves
- **(a)** a means of tracking it during transit;
- **(b)** the safekeeping of it during transit; and
- **(c)** the keeping of an accurate record of the signatures of any persons having charge of it until it is delivered.




**False or misleading information**

**100** It is prohibited to knowingly submit to the Minister an application containing false or misleading information in order to obtain a security clearance.




**DIVISION 8** 
### Communication of Information



**Information concerning clients and responsible individuals**

**101** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if a licensed producer is provided with the given name, surname, date of birth and gender of an individual by a member of a Canadian police force who requests information in the course of an investigation under the Act or these Regulations, the producer must provide as soon as feasible, within 72 hours after receiving the request, the following information to that Canadian police force:
	- **(a)** an indication of whether or not the individual is
		- **(i)** a client of the producer, or
		- **(ii)** an individual who is responsible for a client of the producer; and
	- **(b)** the daily quantity of dried marihuana that is specified in the medical document supporting the client’s registration.

**Verification**

- **(2)** Before providing the requested information, the licensed producer must verify in a reasonable manner that the person requesting the information is a member of a Canadian police force.

**Use of information**

- **(3)** Information provided under this section must be used only for the purposes of the investigation referred to in subsection (1) and for the proper administration or enforcement of the Act or these Regulations.




**Information concerning health care practitioners**

**102** A licensed producer must provide in writing, as soon as feasible, any factual information that has been obtained about a health care practitioner under the Act or these Regulations to the licensing authority responsible for the registration or authorization of the practise of the profession
- **(a)** in the province in which the health care practitioner is authorized to practise if the authority submits to the licensed producer a written request that sets out the practitioner’s name and address, a description of the information being sought and a statement that the information is required for the purpose of assisting an official investigation by the authority; or
- **(b)** in a province in which the health care practitioner is not authorized to practise, if the authority submits to the licensed producer
	- **(i)** a written request for information that sets out the name and address of the practitioner and a description of the information being sought, and
	- **(ii)** either
		- **(A)** documentation that shows that the practitioner has applied to that authority to practise in that province, or
		- **(B)** documentation that shows that the authority has reasonable grounds to believe that the practitioner is practising in that province without being authorized to do so.




**Information concerning licensed producers**

**103** The Minister is authorized to provide any information set out in a notice referred to in section 38, 39 or 40 to a Canadian police force or a member of a Canadian police force who requests the information in the course of an investigation under the Act or these Regulations, subject to that information being used only for the purpose of that investigation and the proper administration or enforcement of the Act or these Regulations.




**Information concerning import or export permit**

**104** The Minister is authorized, for the purpose of verifying whether an importation or exportation of marihuana complies with these Regulations, to provide to a customs officer in Canada any information referred to in sections 74, 75, 78, 82, 83 and 86 and to inform them whether a permit has been suspended or revoked.




**Providing information to foreign organizations**

**105** The Minister is authorized, for the proper administration or enforcement of the Act or these Regulations and for the purpose of enabling Canada to fulfill its international obligations under section 12 of the United Nations’ Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, to provide the following information or documents to the International Narcotics Control Board or a competent authority:
- **(a)** any information or document that a licensed producer is required to provide to the Minister under Part 1;
- **(b)** any information pertaining to an activity authorized by a licence or permit issued to a licensed producer under these Regulations, including the licensed producer’s name, the nature of the authorized activity and any conditions specified in the licence or permit;
- **(c)** in respect of cannabis that a licensed producer receives from another licensed producer or a licensed dealer, the following information:
	- **(i)** in the case of dried marihuana, its quantity and the date on which it was received, or
	- **(ii)** in the case of cannabis other than dried marihuana, the name of the substance in question, its quantity and the date on which it was received;
- **(d)** in respect of an order that a licensed producer fills under section 121, the quantity of dried marihuana and the date on which it was shipped;
- **(e)** in respect of an order that a licensed producer fills under subsection 131(1) or (2), the following information:
	- **(i)** in the case of dried marihuana, its quantity and the date on which it was shipped, or
	- **(ii)** in the case of cannabis other than dried marihuana, the name of the substance in question, its quantity and the date on which it was shipped;
- **(f)** any record that a licensed producer is required to keep under subsection 143(2) or section 144 or 146; and
- **(g)** a copy of any permit issued under section 75 or 83.




**Security clearance — Minister**

**106** The Minister is authorized to communicate to a law enforcement agency information concerning an application for a security clearance for the purpose of conducting the checks and verifications referred to in section 91, subject to that information being used by that agency only for that purpose.




**PART 2** 
## Client Registration and Ordering



### Registration



**Eligibility**

**107** An individual is eligible to be a client of a licensed producer only if they ordinarily reside in Canada.




**Registration application**

**108** 

- **(1)** Before registering an individual as a client, a licensed producer must obtain from the individual or an individual who is responsible for the individual an application that contains the following information:
	- **(a)** the applicant’s given name, surname, date of birth and gender;
	- **(b)** either,
		- **(i)** the address of the place in Canada where the applicant ordinarily resides, as well as, if applicable, the applicant’s telephone number, facsimile number and email address, or
		- **(ii)** if the applicant ordinarily resides in Canada but has no dwelling place, the address, as well as, if applicable, the telephone number, facsimile number and email address of a shelter, hostel or similar institution, located in Canada, that provides food, lodging or other social services to the applicant;
	- **(c)** the mailing address of the place referred to in paragraph (b), if different from the address provided under that paragraph;
	- **(d)** if applicable, the given name, surname, date of birth and gender of one or more individuals who are responsible for the applicant ;
	- **(e)** if the place referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) is an establishment that is not a private residence, the type and name of the establishment; and
	- **(f)** an indication as to which of the following is to be their shipping address:
		- **(i)** the address referred to in subparagraph (b)(i),
		- **(ii)** the mailing address of the place referred to in subparagraph (b)(i), or
		- **(iii)** subject to section 109, the address of the health care practitioner who provided the medical document referred to in subsection (2).

**Medical document**

- **(2)** The applicant must include with the application the original of their medical document.

**Statement by applicant or responsible individual**

- **(3)** The application must be signed and dated by the applicant or an individual who is responsible for the applicant and include a statement that
	- **(a)** the applicant is ordinarily resident in Canada;
	- **(b)** the information in the application and the medical document is correct and complete;
	- **(c)** the medical document is not being used to seek or obtain dried marihuana from another source;
	- **(d)** the original of the medical document accompanies the application; and
	- **(e)** the applicant will use dried marihuana only for their own medical purposes.

**Statement by responsible individual**

- **(4)** If the application is signed and dated by an individual who is responsible for the applicant, it must include a statement by that individual that they are responsible for the applicant.

**Homeless applicant**

- **(5)** If an application includes the information referred to in subparagraph (1)(b)(ii), the applicant must include with the application an attestation of residence signed and dated by a manager of the specified shelter, hostel or similar institution confirming that the institution provides food, lodging or other social services to the applicant.




**Health care practitioner’s consent to receive dried marihuana**

**109** 

- **(1)** If the shipping address specified in a registration application is the one referred to in subparagraph 108(1)(f)(iii), the applicant must include with the application a statement signed and dated by the health care practitioner who provided the medical document to the applicant indicating that the practitioner consents to receive dried marihuana on behalf of the applicant.

**Withdrawal of consent**

- **(2)** If the applicant becomes a client of a licensed producer in accordance with section 111 and the health care practitioner ceases to consent to receive dried marihuana on behalf of the client, the practitioner must send a written notice to that effect to the client and the licensed producer.

**No further shipments**

- **(3)** A licensed producer who receives such a notice must not send any further shipments of dried marihuana to that health care practitioner for that client.

**Amendment to registration**

- **(4)** A client who receives such a notice and wishes to specify a new shipping address must submit to the licensed producer a registration amendment application in accordance with section 115.




**Verification of medical document**

**110** A licensed producer who receives an application under section 108 and intends to register the applicant must ensure that
- **(a)** the medical document accompanying the application meets all of the requirements of section 129;
- **(b)** the person who provided the applicant with the medical document
	- **(i)** is a health care practitioner,
	- **(ii)** is entitled to practise their profession in the province in which the applicant consulted with that person, and
	- **(iii)** is not named in a notice issued under section 59 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) that has not been retracted under section 60 of those Regulations; and
- **(c)** the applicant has consulted with the person referred to in paragraph (b) and that the information set out in the medical document is correct and complete, by confirming these matters with the office of that person.




**Registration of client**

**111** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 113, a licensed producer may register an applicant as a client.

**Registration document and unique identifier**

- **(2)** If the licensed producer registers the applicant as a client, the producer must
	- **(a)** send the client a registration document that contains the following information:
		- **(i)** the name of the producer, and
		- **(ii)** in respect of the client,
			- **(A)** the client’s given name, surname, date of birth and gender,
			- **(B)** the address referred to in subparagraph 108(1)(b)(i) or (ii),
			- **(C)** the client’s shipping address in Canada, and
			- **(D)** the expiry date of the registration; and
	- **(b)** provide the client with information that will permit the client to use a unique identifier for the purpose of ordering dried marihuana.




**Expiry of registration**

**112** A client’s registration expires at the end of the period of validity of the medical document supporting the registration, as determined in accordance with subsections 129(2) and (3).




**Refusal to register**

**113** A licensed producer must refuse to register an applicant as a client if
- **(a)** the application does not meet the requirements of section 108;
- **(b)** the licensed producer has reasonable grounds to believe that false or misleading information or false or falsified documents were submitted in or with the application;
- **(c)** the requirements of section 110 are not met;
- **(d)** the medical document that is submitted with the application is no longer valid;
- **(e)** the given name, surname or date of birth of the applicant is different from the given name, surname or date of birth that appears on the medical document;
- **(f)** the health care practitioner who provided the medical document to the applicant notifies the licensed producer in writing that the use of dried marihuana by the applicant is no longer supported for clinical reasons; or
- **(g)** the address specified in the application under subparagraph 108(1)(b)(i) or (ii) is not in Canada.




**Notice — refusal to register**

**114** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer who proposes to refuse to register an applicant for a ground set out in section 113 or for a business reason must without delay send the applicant a notice that indicates the reason for the refusal.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(2)** The applicant may, within 10 days after receipt of the notice, provide the licensed producer with reasons why the refusal is unfounded.

**Return of medical document**

- **(3)** A licensed producer who refuses to register an applicant must return the medical document to the applicant without delay.




**Application to amend registration**

**115** 

- **(1)** An application to amend a registration must be made to the licensed producer by the client or an individual responsible for the client when a change occurs in respect of any of the information provided under subsection 108(1).

**Content of application**

- **(2)** The application must include
	- **(a)** the requested amendment;
	- **(b)** in the case of a change to any of the information provided under paragraph 108(1)(a), proof of the change; and
	- **(c)** in the case of a change to the information provided under subparagraph 108(1)(f)(iii), the statement referred to in subsection 109(1).

**Statement**

- **(3)** The application must be signed and dated by the client or an individual who is responsible for the client and include a statement that
	- **(a)** the client is ordinarily resident in Canada; and
	- **(b)** the information contained in the application is correct and complete.

**Statement by responsible individual**

- **(4)** If the application is signed and dated by an individual who is responsible for the client, it must include a statement by that individual that they are responsible for the client.




**Amendment**

**116** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must amend a client’s registration if the client’s amendment application meets the requirements of subsections 115(2) and (3).

**Amended registration document**

- **(2)** If the licensed producer amends the client’s registration, the producer must send the client an amended registration document that contains the information referred to in subparagraphs 111(2)(a)(i) and (ii).




**Cancellation of registration**

**117** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must cancel the registration of a client if
	- **(a)** the client or an individual who is responsible for the client requests the licensed producer to cancel the registration;
	- **(b)** the client dies, ceases to be ordinarily resident in Canada or ceases to have a shipping address in Canada;
	- **(c)** the licensed producer has reasonable grounds to believe that
		- **(i)** the registration was made on the basis of false or misleading information or false or falsified documents submitted in or with the registration application, or
		- **(ii)** false or misleading information or false or falsified documents were submitted in or with the application to amend the registration;
	- **(d)** the health care practitioner who provided the medical document to the client notifies the licensed producer in writing that the use of dried marihuana by the client is no longer supported for clinical reasons; or
	- **(e)** the health care practitioner who provided the medical document to the client is named in a notice issued under section 59 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) that has not been retracted under section 60 of those Regulations.

**Time of cancellation**

- **(2)** The licensed producer must cancel the registration of the client without delay if the producer
	- **(a)** receives a request referred to in paragraph (1)(a) or a written notice under paragraph (1)(d);
	- **(b)** becomes aware of a ground referred to in paragraph (1)(b) or (e) and has verified in a reasonable manner the existence of the ground; or
	- **(c)** has reasonable grounds to believe that a ground referred to in subparagraph (1)(c)(i) or (ii) exists.

**Cancellation of all registrations**

- **(3)** A licensed producer must cancel the registrations of all of its clients without delay if the producer’s licence is revoked.

**Cancellation by producer for business reason**

- **(4)** A licensed producer may cancel the registration of a client for a business reason.

**Notice**

- **(5)** Except in the case of the death of a client, a licensed producer who proposes to cancel a client’s registration must without delay send a notice that indicates the reason for the cancellation to the client.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(6)** Within 10 days after receipt of the notice, the client or an individual responsible for the client may provide the licensed producer with reasons why the cancellation is unfounded.

**Medical document**

- **(7)** A licensed producer who cancels a client’s registration must not return the medical document.




**Prohibition — transfer of medical document**

**118** A licensed producer must not transfer to any person a medical document on the basis of which a client has been registered.




### New Medical Document



**New application**

**119** A licensed producer must not sell or provide dried marihuana to a client or an individual who is responsible for the client on the basis of a new medical document unless the client or the individual submits to the producer a new registration application that meets the requirements of section 108.




**Applicable provisions**

**120** Sections 109 to 114 apply to an application under section 119 in the same way that they apply to an application under section 108.




### Processing an Order



**Order required**

**121** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must not sell or provide dried marihuana to a client or an individual responsible for the client unless the producer has first received, from the client or the individual, a written order in accordance with subsection (2) or a verbal order recorded in accordance with subsection (3).

**Written orders**

- **(2)** A written order for dried marihuana must
	- **(a)** be dated as of the day on which it is made;
	- **(b)** set out
		- **(i)** the given name, surname and date of birth of the client for whom the order is made,
		- **(ii)** the given name and surname of the individual making the order,
		- **(iii)** the shipping address specified in the client’s registration document, and
		- **(iv)** the client’s unique identifier; and
	- **(c)** set out the quantity and the brand name of the dried marihuana being ordered.

**Verbal orders**

- **(3)** A licensed producer who receives a verbal order must, before filling the order, make a record of the information referred to in section 137.




**Shipping**

**122** In filling an order referred to in section 121, a licensed producer must not transfer physical possession of the dried marihuana to the client or to an individual responsible for that client other than by shipping it to that person.




**Refusal**

**123** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must refuse to fill an order referred to in section 121 if
	- **(a)** the order does not meet the requirements of section 121;
	- **(b)** any of the information that is referred to in subparagraph 121(2)(b)(i) or (iii) does not correspond to the information set out in the client’s registration document in accordance with clause 111(2)(a)(ii)(A) or (C);
	- **(c)** the client’s unique identifier referred to in subparagraph 121(2)(b)(iv) is not correct;
	- **(d)** the client’s registration has expired or been cancelled;
	- **(e)** the order specifies a quantity of dried marihuana that exceeds 150 g;
	- **(f)** the order has been previously filled in whole or in part; or
	- **(g)** more than 30 days have elapsed since the date referred to in paragraph 121(2)(a) or 137(a).

**Notice of refusal to fill order**

- **(2)** The licensed producer must send the client a written notice of the reason for the refusal.




**Thirty-day limit**

**124** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must not sell or provide to a client or an individual responsible for the client in any 30-day period a total quantity of dried marihuana that exceeds 30 times the daily quantity referred to in paragraph 129(1)(d).

**Date of sale**

- **(2)** A quantity of dried marihuana is deemed to be sold or provided, for the purpose of subsection (1), on the date that the licensed producer reasonably anticipates that it will be received by the client.

**Return**

- **(3)** If the client or an individual responsible for the client returns to the licensed producer dried marihuana that the producer sold or provided to them, the producer may replace the returned marihuana with an equal quantity, to a maximum of 150 g.

**Exclusion**

- **(4)** The quantity of any dried marihuana that the licensed producer provides to the client or an individual responsible for the client to replace the returned marihuana is to be excluded for the purpose of calculating the total quantity referred to in subsection (1).




**PART 3** 
## Clients and other Authorized Users



**Proof of authority to possess**

**125** On demand, an individual who, in accordance with these Regulations, obtains dried marihuana for their own medical purposes must show to a police officer proof that they are authorized to possess the dried marihuana.




**Prohibition — obtaining from more than one source**

**126** It is prohibited to seek or obtain dried marihuana from more than one source at a time on the basis of the same medical document.




**Return**

**127** 

- **(1)** An individual who, in accordance with these Regulations or subsection 65(2.1) of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md), obtains dried marihuana for their own medical purposes or for those of another individual for whom they are responsible may return the dried marihuana to the person who sold or provided it to them if that person accepts the return of that dried marihuana.

**Return by shipping**

- **(2)** If the individual returns the dried marihuana by means of shipping it to the person who sold or provided it to them, they must
	- **(a)** ship it in a package that meets the requirements of paragraph 73(1)(b); and
	- **(b)** use a shipping method that meets the requirements of paragraph 73(1)(c).

**Return to licensed producer**

- **(3)** If the individual returns the dried marihuana to the licensed producer who sold or provided it to them, they must do so by shipping it to the producer’s site in accordance with paragraphs (2)(a) and (b).




**PART 4** 
## Health Care Practitioners



**Authorized activities**

**128** 

- **(1)** In addition to being authorized to possess dried marihuana in accordance with section 3, a health care practitioner may perform the following activities in regard to a person who is under their professional treatment:
	- **(a)** transfer or administer dried marihuana; or
	- **(b)** provide a medical document.

**Transfer**

- **(2)** The health care practitioner may also transfer dried marihuana to an individual who is responsible for the person under their professional treatment.




**Medical document**

**129** 

- **(1)** A medical document provided by a health care practitioner to a person who is under their professional treatment must indicate
	- **(a)** the practitioner’s given name, surname, profession, business address and telephone number, facsimile number and email address, if applicable, the province in which the practitioner is authorized to practise their profession and the number assigned by the province to that authorization;
	- **(b)** the person’s given name, surname and date of birth;
	- **(c)** the address of the location at which the person consulted with the practitioner;
	- **(d)** the daily quantity of dried marihuana to be used by the person, expressed in grams; and
	- **(e)** the period of use.

**Period of use**

- **(2)** The period of use referred to in paragraph (1)(e)
	- **(a)** must be specified as a number of days, weeks or months, which must not exceed one year; and
	- **(b)** begins on the day on which the medical document is signed by the health care practitioner.

**Validity of medical document**

- **(3)** A medical document is valid for the period of use specified in it.

**Attestation**

- **(4)** The medical document must be signed and dated by the health care practitioner providing it and must attest that the information in the document is correct and complete.




**Thirty-day limit**

**130** 

- **(1)** A health care practitioner must not transfer to a person under their professional treatment or an individual who is responsible for that person (both of whom are referred to in this section as “the transferee”) in any 30-day period a total quantity of dried marihuana that exceeds 30 times the daily quantity to be used by the person under their professional treatment, as specified in the medical document on the basis of which the transfer is made.

**Additional limit**

- **(2)** A health care practitioner must not, at any one time, transfer to the transferee a quantity of dried marihuana that exceeds 150 g.

**Exclusion**

- **(3)** The quantity of any dried marihuana that the health care practitioner transfers to the transferee to replace any dried marihuana that the transferee has returned under section 127 is to be excluded for the purpose of calculating the total quantity referred to in subsection (1).




**PART 5** 
## Sale or Provision by a Licensed Producer to a Person other than a Client



**Order required — cannabis**

**131** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must not sell or provide cannabis under subsection 12(2) unless the producer has first received a written order in accordance with subsection (3) from
	- **(a)** in the case of a licensed dealer or another licensed producer, an individual who is authorized to place an order for cannabis on behalf of that dealer or producer; and
	- **(b)** in any other case, the person to whom the cannabis is to be sold or provided in accordance with the Act and these Regulations.

**Order required — dried marihuana**

- **(2)** A licensed producer must not sell or provide dried marihuana under subparagraphs 12(4)(a)(ii) or (iii) unless the producer has first received a written order in accordance with subsection (3) from
	- **(a)** in the case referred to in subparagraph 12(4)(a)(ii), a pharmacist practising in the hospital or a health care practitioner authorized to place orders for dried marihuana on behalf of the hospital; and
	- **(b)** in the case referred to in subparagraph 12(4)(a)(iii), the person to whom the dried marihuana is to be sold or provided.

**Requirements**

- **(3)** The written order must
	- **(a)** be signed and dated by a person described in subsection (1) or (2) and indicate their name;
	- **(b)** indicate the shipping address in Canada; and
	- **(c)** specify whether dried marihuana or cannabis other than dried marihuana is being ordered and include the following information:
		- **(i)** in the case of dried marihuana, its quantity and brand name, or
		- **(ii)** in the case of cannabis other than dried marihuana, the substance ordered, its quantity, description and, if applicable, brand name.

**Signature**

- **(4)** A licensed producer must verify in a reasonable manner the identity of the person who placed the order if the signature on the order is not known to the producer.




**Shipping**

**132** In filling an order referred to in subsection 131(2), a licensed producer must not transfer physical possession of the dried marihuana to the person to whom it is sold or provided other than by shipping it to them.




**Refusal**

**133** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must refuse to fill an order referred to in subsection 131(1) or (2) if
	- **(a)** the order does not meet the requirements of subsection 131(3); or
	- **(b)** in the circumstances described in subsection 131(4), the identity of the person cannot be verified.

**Notice of refusal to fill order**

- **(2)** The licensed producer must send the person who placed the order a written notice of the reason for the refusal.




**PART 6** 
## Record Keeping by Licensed Producers



### Transactions



**Cannabis received**

**134** Except in the case referred to in section 139, a licensed producer who receives cannabis must record the following information:
- **(a)** the name of the person from whom it was received;
- **(b)** the address of the site at which it was received;
- **(c)** the date on which it was received; and
- **(d)** an indication of whether dried marihuana or cannabis other than dried marihuana was received, as well as the following information:
	- **(i)** in the case of dried marihuana, the quantity and, if applicable, brand name, or
	- **(ii)** in the case of cannabis other than dried marihuana, the substance ordered, its quantity, description, intended use and, if applicable, brand name.




**Imported marihuana**

**135** A licensed producer who imports marihuana must retain a copy of the declaration required by section 78 and of the export permit issued by a competent authority in the country of export.




**Exported marihuana**

**136** A licensed producer who exports marihuana must retain a copy of the declaration required by section 86 and of the import permit issued by a competent authority in the country of final destination.




**Record of verbal order**

**137** A licensed producer who receives a verbal order referred to in subsection 121(3) must record the following information:
- **(a)** the date on which the order was made and the order number;
- **(b)** the information referred to in paragraphs 121(2)(b) and (c); and
- **(c)** the name of the individual recording the order.




**Filling of order from client**

**138** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer who fills an order referred to in section 121 must record the following information:
	- **(a)** the given name, surname and date of birth of the client for whom the order is placed;
	- **(b)** the given name and surname of the individual placing the order;
	- **(c)** the quantity, brand name and lot number of the dried marihuana sold or provided;
	- **(d)** the date on which the order was received;
	- **(e)** the date on which the dried marihuana was shipped; and
	- **(f)** the address to which the dried marihuana was shipped.

**Retention of documents**

- **(2)** A licensed producer must retain a written order referred to in subsection 121(2) or a written record of a verbal order referred to in subsection 121(3).

**Refusal to fill an order**

- **(3)** A licensed producer who refuses to fill an order referred to in section 121 must retain a copy of the written notice referred to in subsection 123(2).




**Dried marihuana returned by client**

**139** A licensed producer who receives dried marihuana that is returned under section 127 must record the following information:
- **(a)** the given name and surname of the individual who returned it;
- **(b)** the address of the site at which it was received;
- **(c)** its quantity and brand name; and
- **(d)** the date on which it was received.




**Order from person other than client**

**140** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer who fills an order referred to in subsection 131(1) or (2) must record the following information:
	- **(a)** the name of the person to whom the cannabis or dried marihuana was sold or provided;
	- **(b)** the shipping address;
	- **(c)** an indication of whether dried marihuana or cannabis other than dried marihuana was ordered, as well as the following information:
		- **(i)** in the case of dried marihuana, its quantity and, if applicable, brand name, or
		- **(ii)** in the case of cannabis other than dried marihuana, the substance ordered, its quantity, description and, if applicable, brand name; and
	- **(d)** the date on which the cannabis or dried marihuana was shipped.

**Refusal to fill an order**

- **(2)** A licensed producer who refuses to fill an order referred to in subsection 131(1) or (2) must retain a copy of the written notice referred to in subsection 133(2).




### Client Registrations



**Information**

**141** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must record the following information:
	- **(a)** details of the verifications performed under subsection 101(2), section 110 and paragraph 117(2)(b); and
	- **(b)** what will serve as the unique identifier referred to in paragraph 111(2)(b) and the manner in which and the date on which it was communicated to the client.

**Documents**

- **(2)** A licensed producer must retain the following documents:
	- **(a)** a registration application referred to in section 108;
	- **(b)** a medical document referred to in section 108, or, if the document has been returned in accordance with subsection 114(3), a copy of it;
	- **(c)** a copy of a registration document referred to in paragraph 111(2)(a);
	- **(d)** an application for the amendment of a registration referred to in section 115;
	- **(e)** a copy of an amended registration document referred to in subsection 116(2); and
	- **(f)** a copy of a notice referred to in section 114 or subsection 117(5).




### Security, Production and Inventory



**Security**

**142** A licensed producer must keep
- **(a)** the visual recordings referred to in sections 43 and 48;
- **(b)** the records referred to in subsections 45(2) and 51(2); and
- **(c)** the record referred to in subsection 46(3).




**Good production practices and packaging, labelling and shipping**

**143** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must keep
	- **(a)** records demonstrating that each lot or batch of dried marihuana that they sold or provided under subsection 12(4) was produced, packaged and labelled in accordance with Divisions 4 and 5 of Part 1;
	- **(b)** a list of all brand names of dried marihuana that they produced, packaged or labelled;
	- **(c)** a copy of the sanitation program referred to in section 57 in use at their site;
	- **(d)** a copy of the standard operating procedures referred to in section 58 in use at their site;
	- **(e)** documentation concerning the control system referred to in section 59 in use at their site;
	- **(f)** a description of the qualifications of the quality assurance person in respect of the matters referred to in subparagraph 60(1)(a)(ii); and
	- **(g)** records of every complaint referred to in paragraph 60(1)(b) and of any corrective action taken.

**Sale or provision**

- **(2)** A licensed producer who sells or provides dried marihuana
	- **(a)** must keep records of any testing conducted by or on behalf of the licensed producer in respect of any lot or batch of the dried marihuana;
	- **(b)** must keep records of information necessary for the system of control referred to in section 59; and
	- **(c)** must keep a record of the information that the licensed producer is required by section 62 to provide to the Minister in respect of the recall of dried marihuana.




**Propagated, sown, harvested, dried, packaged and destroyed marihuana**

**144** A licensed producer must keep a record of the following information concerning each lot or batch of marihuana that they propagate, sow, harvest, dry, package or destroy:
- **(a)** the date on which marihuana plants are propagated by means other than sowing seeds and the total number of new plants propagated in this manner;
- **(b)** the date on which marihuana seeds are sown and their total net weight on that date;
- **(c)** the date on which marihuana is harvested and its net weight on that date;
- **(d)** the date on which the drying process for marihuana is completed and its net weight on that date;
- **(e)** the date on which marihuana is packaged and its net weight on that date; and
- **(f)** the date on which marihuana is destroyed and its net weight on that date, before the destruction.




**Destroyed cannabis**

**145** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must keep, for each instance in which they destroy cannabis, a record of the following information:
	- **(a)** the date on which the cannabis was destroyed, the name of the substance destroyed and its net weight on that date, before the destruction;
	- **(b)** the location at which it was destroyed;
	- **(c)** a brief description of the method of destruction;
	- **(d)** the names of the witnesses to the destruction that are referred to in paragraph 20(1)(b) and the basis on which they are qualified to be witnesses under subsection 20(2); and
	- **(e)** if applicable, the name of the person who accompanied the cannabis in accordance with subsection 20(3).

**Statement by witnesses**

- **(2)** A licensed producer must keep, for each instance in which they destroy cannabis, a statement signed and dated by each of the witnesses referred to in paragraph 20(1)(b) stating that they have witnessed the destruction and that the cannabis was destroyed in accordance with section 20.




**Inventory**

**146** A licensed producer must keep a record of the net weight of each of the following that are in inventory at their site at the end of each quarter of the calendar year:
- **(a)** marihuana seeds;
- **(b)** harvested marihuana in respect of which the drying process has not been completed, other than marihuana referred in paragraph (d) or (e);
- **(c)** harvested marihuana in respect of which the drying process has been completed, other than marihuana referred in paragraph (d) or (e);
- **(d)** marihuana that is destined for destruction;
- **(e)** packaged marihuana; and
- **(f)** cannabis other than marihuana, specifying the name and net weight of each of the substances in question.




### Notices to Local Authorities



**Notices**

**147** A licensed producer must keep a copy of
- **(a)** each notice sent to local authorities under sections 38 to 40; and
- **(b)** each notice sent to the Minister under section 40.




### General Obligations



**Manner of keeping records**

**148** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer must ensure that the records, documents and information referred to in this Part
	- **(a)** are kept in a manner that will enable an audit of them to be made in a timely manner; and
	- **(b)** are available at their site.

**Retention period**

- **(2)** A licensed producer must retain the records, documents and information for the following periods:
	- **(a)** in the case of a written notice that the producer is required to send under these Regulations, for a period of two years after the day on which the notice is sent;
	- **(b)** in the case of information that the producer is required to record under sections 134 and 137, subsection 138(1), section 139, subsections 140(1) and 141(1) and sections 144 and 146, for a period of two years after the day on which the information is recorded;
	- **(c)** in the case of the documents referred to in sections 135 and 136, for a period of two years after the day on which the declaration referred to in section 78 or 86, as applicable, is sent to the Minister;
	- **(d)** in the case of the documents referred to in subsection 138(2) and paragraphs 141(2)(a) to (e), for a period of two years after the day on which the producer obtained them or, in the case of documents made by the producer, the day on which they were made;
	- **(e)** in the case of the visual recordings or the records referred to in section 142, for a period of two years after the day on which they were made;
	- **(f)** in the case of the records referred to in paragraphs 143(1)(a) and (2)(b), for a period of two years after the date of the last sale or provision of any portion of the lot or batch of dried marihuana under subsection 12(4);
	- **(g)** in the case of a document referred to in paragraph 143(1)(b), (c), (d) or (e), for the period during which it is current and for an additional period of two years after the day on which it is replaced by a new version;
	- **(h)** in the case of a document referred to in paragraph 143(1)(f), for the period during which the quality assurance person acts in that capacity and for an additional period of two years after the day on which the person ceases to do so;
	- **(i)** in the case of the records referred to in paragraph 143(1)(g), for a period of two years after the day on which the complaint was recorded;
	- **(j)** in the case of the records referred to in paragraph 143(2)(a), for a period of two years after the date of the last sale or provision of any portion of the lot or batch, other than a sale or provision for destruction;
	- **(k)** in the case of the records referred to in paragraph 143(2)(c), for a period of two years after the day on which the dried marihuana was recalled; and
	- **(l)** in the case of the records and documents referred to in section 145, for a period of two years after the day on which the cannabis was destroyed.

**Case reports and summary reports**

- **(3)** A licensed producer must retain the serious adverse reaction case reports and the summary reports referred to in subsections 63(1) and (2) for a period of 25 years after the day on which they were made.




**Information required by Minister**

**149** A licensed producer must provide the Minister with any information that the Minister may require in respect of the records, documents and information referred to in this Part, in the form and at the times that the Minister specifies.




**Former licensed producers**

**150** If a licence to produce expires without being renewed or is revoked, the former licensed producer must comply with the requirements of paragraph 148(1)(a), subsections 148(2) and (3) and section 149.



[**151** to **199** reserved]



**PART 7** 
## Consequential Amendments, Transitional Provisions, Repeal and Coming into Force



### Consequential Amendments



#### [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md)


**200** [Amendments]



**201** [Amendment]



**202** [Amendments]



**203** [Amendments]



**204** [Amendment]



**205** [Amendment]



**206** [Amendments]



**207** [Amendment]



**208** [Amendment]



**209** [Amendments]



**210** [Amendments]



**211** [Amendment]



**212** [Amendments]



**213** [Amendment]



**214** [Amendments]



**215** [Amendments]



**216** [Amendment]



**217** [Amendments]



**218** [Amendments]



**219** [Amendment]



**220** [Amendments]



**221** [Amendments]



**222** [Amendments]



**223** [Amendment]



**224** [Amendment]



**225** [Amendments]



**226** [Amendment]



**227** [Amendment]



**228** [Amendment]




#### [Marihuana Medical Access Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/227.md)


**229** [Amendment]



**230** [Amendment]



**231** [Amendment]



**232** [Amendment]



**233** [Amendment]



**234** [Amendment]



**235** [Amendment]



**236** [Amendment]



**237** [Amendment]



**238** [Amendment]



**239** [Amendment]



**240** [Amendment]



**241** [Amendment]



**242** [Amendments]



**243** [Amendment]



**244** [Amendment]



**245** [Amendment]



**246** [Amendment]



**247** [Amendment]



**248** [Amendment]



**249** [Amendment]



**250** [Amendment]




#### [New Classes of Practitioners Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2012/230.md)


**251** [Amendment]



**252** [Amendment]




### Transitional Provisions



#### Interpretation



**Definitions**

**253** 

- **(1)** For the purpose of sections 254 to 266, ***authorization to possess***, ***designated-person production licence***, ***medical practitioner*** and ***personal-use production licence*** have the same meaning as in subsection 1(1) of the [Marihuana Medical Access Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/227.md).

**Medical declaration**

- **(2)** For the purpose of sections 254 to 266, ***medical declaration*** means a medical declaration that is made by a medical practitioner in accordance with sections 6 and 8 of the [Marihuana Medical Access Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/227.md).




#### Registration Based on an Authorization to Possess



**Applicable period**

**254** Sections 255 and 256 apply until March 31, 2015.




**Registration based on authorization to possess**

**255** 

- **(1)** For the purpose of subsection 108(2), an individual applying to become a client of a licensed producer may include an authorization to possess with their application, instead of a medical document.

**Ongoing validity of authorization to possess**

- **(2)** An authorization to possess that was valid immediately before the repeal of the [Marihuana Medical Access Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2001/227.md) remains valid solely for the purpose of being used as specified in subsection (1).




**Modified application of Regulations**

**256** If, in accordance with section 255, a registration application under section 108 is made on the basis of an authorization to possess, the provisions of these Regulations, other than section 129, apply with the following modifications:
- **(a)** a reference in sections 1 to 150 to a ***medical document*** is to be read as a reference to an authorization to possess, except in the case of
	- **(i)** the definition ***medical document*** in subsection 1(1),
	- **(ii)** paragraph 128(1)(b), and
	- **(iii)** a provision referred to in paragraph (b); and
- **(b)** a provision that is referred to in column 1 of the table to this section is to be read as set out in column 2.
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Provision</th>
<th>Modified text</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>paragraph 5(a)</td>
<td>

- **(a)** in the case of dried marihuana obtained from a licensed producer in accordance with an authorization to possess, the quantity specified in the authorization;



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>subparagraph 67(a)(ii)</td>
<td>

	- **(ii)** the name of the medical practitioner that appears on the authorization to possess,



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>subparagraph 67(a)(iv)</td>
<td>

	- **(iv)** the daily quantity of dried marihuana determined by the formula
```
A / 30
```
where
- **A** is the maximum quantity of dried marihuana specified in the authorization to possess,



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>paragraph 101(1)(b)</td>
<td>

- **(b)** in respect of a individual who is a client of the producer, the daily quantity of dried marihuana determined by the formula
```
A / 30
```
where
- **A** is the maximum quantity of dried marihuana specified in the authorization to possess supporting the client’s registration.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>subparagraph 108(1)(f)(iii)</td>
<td>

	- **(iii)** subject to section 109, the address of the medical practitioner who made the medical declaration supporting the authorization to possess referred to in subsection 108(2).



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>subsection 109(1)</td>
<td>

- **(1)** If the shipping address specified in a registration application is the one referred to in subparagraph 108(1)(f)(iii), the applicant must include with the application a statement, signed and dated by the medical practitioner who made the medical declaration supporting the authorization to possess referred to in subsection 108(2), indicating that the practitioner consents to receive dried marihuana on behalf of the applicant.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>section 110</td>
<td>
**110** 

- **(1)** A licensed producer who receives an application under section 108 and intends to register the applicant as a client must communicate with the Minister to confirm the date of issue and date of expiry of the authorization to possess and, if applicable, the reference date indicated on the authorization and to confirm that the authorization has not been revoked.

- **(2)** If the licensed producer registers the applicant as a client, the licensed producer must immediately notify the Minister in writing of the registration and the date of the registration, and provide the Minister with a copy of the authorization to possess.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>section 112</td>
<td>
**112** A client’s registration expires at the earlier of
- **(a)** the date that is one year after the date of issue of the authorization to possess supporting the registration, and
- **(b)** either
	- **(i)** the reference date indicated on that authorization, or
	- **(ii)** the date of expiry of that authorization, if that authorization has no reference date.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>paragraphs 113(d) to (f)</td>
<td>

- **(d)** the registration would begin after the reference date indicated on the authorization to possess submitted with the application;
- **(d.1)** in a case in which the authorization to possess has no reference date, the authorization has expired;
- **(e)** the name or date of birth of the applicant is different from the name or date of birth that appears on the authorization to possess;
- **(f)** the Minister informs the licensed producer that the authorization to possess has been or will be revoked; or



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>paragraphs 117(1)(d) and (e)</td>
<td>

- **(d)** the Minister informs the licensed producer in writing that the medical practitioner named in the authorization to possess supporting the client’s registration with the licensed producer has advised the Minister in writing that the continued use of dried marihuana by the client is no longer supported for clinical reasons; or
- **(e)** the medical practitioner named in the authorization to possess is named in a notice issued under section 59 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md) that has not been retracted under section 60 of those Regulations.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>subsection 124(1)</td>
<td>

- **(1)** A licensed producer must not sell or provide to a client in any 30-day period a total quantity of dried marihuana that exceeds the maximum quantity specified in the authorization to possess supporting the client’s registration.

</td>
</tr>
</table>





#### Registration Based on a Medical Declaration



**Applicable period**

**257** Sections 258 and 259 apply until March 31, 2014.




**Registration based on medical declaration**

**258** For the purpose of subsection 108(2), an individual applying to become a client of a licensed producer may include a medical declaration with the application instead of a medical document.




**Modified application of Regulations**

**259** If, in accordance with section 258, a registration application under section 108 is made on the basis of a medical declaration, the provisions of these Regulations, other than paragraph 110(a) and section 129, apply with the following modifications:
- **(a)** a reference in sections 1 to 150 to a ***medical document*** is to be read as a reference to a medical declaration, except in the case of
	- **(i)** the definition ***medical document*** in subsection 1(1),
	- **(ii)** paragraph 128(1)(b), and
	- **(iii)** a provision referred to in paragraph (b); and
- **(b)** a provision that is referred to in column 1 of the table to this section is to be read as set out in column 2.
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Provision</th>
<th>Modified text</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>paragraph 5(a)</td>
<td>

- **(a)** in the case of dried marihuana obtained from a licensed producer in accordance with a medical declaration, 30 times the daily amount specified in the medical declaration;



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>subparagraph 67(a)(ii)</td>
<td>

	- **(ii)** the name of the medical practitioner who made the client’s medical declaration,



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>section 112</td>
<td>
**112** 

- **(1)** A client’s registration expires at the earlier of
	- **(a)** the day that is one year after the day on which the medical declaration supporting the registration was signed by the medical practitioner, and
	- **(b)** if applicable, the day on which the period of usage specified in the medical declaration expires.

- **(2)** For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b), the period of usage begins on the day on which the medical declaration was signed by the medical practitioner.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>paragraphs 113(d) to (f)</td>
<td>

- **(d)** more than one year has elapsed since the day on which the medical declaration submitted with the application was signed by the medical practitioner;
- **(d.1)** if applicable, the period of usage specified in the medical declaration has expired, with that period being deemed to have commenced on the day on which the medical declaration was signed by the medical practitioner;
- **(e)** the name or date of birth of the applicant is different from the name or date of birth that appears on the medical declaration;
- **(f)** the medical practitioner who made the medical declaration informs the licensed producer in writing that the use of dried marihuana by the applicant is no longer supported for clinical reasons; or



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>subsection 124(1)</td>
<td>

- **(1)** A licensed producer must not sell or provide to a client or an individual who is responsible for the client in any 30-day period a total quantity of dried marihuana that exceeds 30 times the daily amount specified in the medical declaration supporting the client’s registration.

</td>
</tr>
</table>





#### Sale or Provision of Marihuana to Licensed Producer



**Applicable period**

**260** Sections 261 to 266 apply until March 31, 2014.




##### Sale or Provision by Holder of a Personal-use Production Licence



**Authorized sale**

**261** The holder of a personal-use production licence may sell or provide marihuana plants or seeds to a licensed producer if the holder does so in accordance with a notice of authorization issued by the Minister under subsection 263(2).




**Application for authorization**

**262** 

- **(1)** The holder of a personal-use production licence who proposes to sell or provide marihuana plants or seeds to a licensed producer must submit to the Minister an application for authorization of the proposed sale or provision that contains the following information:
	- **(a)** in respect of the holder of the personal-use production licence:
		- **(i)** their name and date of birth,
		- **(ii)** the number of their licence,
		- **(iii)** the address of the place where they ordinarily reside, and
		- **(iv)** the address of the site where the production of marihuana is authorized;
	- **(b)** in respect of the licensed producer:
		- **(i)** their name,
		- **(ii)** the number of their licence,
		- **(iii)** the address of their site, and
		- **(iv)** the name of their senior person in charge; and
	- **(c)** a description of the marihuana plants or seeds that are to be sold or provided and their quantity.

**Signature**

- **(2)** The application must be signed and dated by the holder of the personal-use production licence and by the licensed producer’s senior person in charge and include a statement by each of them indicating that all of the information submitted in support of the application is correct and complete to the best of that person’s knowledge.




**Verification by Minister**

**263** 

- **(1)** The Minister must, after examining the application and information required under section 262, verify if the following conditions are met:
	- **(a)** the personal-use production licence and the licensed producer’s licence are valid; and
	- **(b)** the number of marihuana plants to be sold or provided, if any, does not exceed the maximum number of plants specified in the personal-use production licence.

**Notice of authorization**

- **(2)** If the conditions are met, the Minister must send to both parties a notice of authorization of the proposed sale or provision that
	- **(a)** specifies the names of the parties, the type of licence held by each party and the licence numbers;
	- **(b)** describes the marihuana plants or seeds that are to be sold or provided and their quantity;
	- **(c)** specifies that the notice is valid only for the sale or provision in respect of which it is issued;
	- **(d)** specifies that the notice is valid only if the licences referred to paragraph (1)(a) are valid at the time of the sale or provision; and
	- **(e)** specifies that the sale or provision must be completed not later than 30 days after the date of the notice.

**Notice of refusal**

- **(3)** If the conditions are not met, the Minister must send to each of the parties a notice of refusal of the proposed sale or provision that sets out the reasons for the refusal.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(4)** The parties may, within 10 days after the receipt of a notice of refusal, provide the Minister with reasons why the refusal is unfounded.




##### Sale or Provision by Holder of a Designated-person Production Licence



**Authorized sale**

**264** The holder of a designated-person production licence may sell or provide marihuana plants or seeds to a licensed producer if the holder does so in accordance with a notice of authorization issued by the Minister under subsection 266(2).




**Application for authorization**

**265** 

- **(1)** The holder of a designated-person production licence who proposes to sell or provide marihuana plants or seeds to a licensed producer must submit to the Minister an application for authorization of the proposed sale or provision that contains the following information:
	- **(a)** in respect of the holder of the designated-person production licence:
		- **(i)** their name and date of birth,
		- **(ii)** the number of their licence,
		- **(iii)** the address of the place where they ordinarily reside, and
		- **(iv)** the address of the site where the production of marihuana is authorized;
	- **(b)** in respect of the holder of the authorization to possess on the basis of which the designated-person production licence was issued:
		- **(i)** their name and date of birth,
		- **(ii)** the number of their authorization,
		- **(iii)** the address of the place where they ordinarily reside, and
		- **(iv)** an indication that they consent to the proposed sale or provision;
	- **(c)** in regard to the licensed producer:
		- **(i)** their name,
		- **(ii)** the number of their licence,
		- **(iii)** the address of their site, and
		- **(iv)** the name of their senior person in charge; and
	- **(d)** a description of the marihuana plants or seeds that are to be sold or provided and their quantity.

**Signature**

- **(2)** The application must be signed and dated by the holder of the designated-person production licence, the holder of the authorization to possess and the licensed producer’s senior person in charge and include a statement by each of them indicating that all of the information submitted in support of the application is correct and complete to the best of that person’s knowledge.

**Separate applications**

- **(3)** If a person is the holder of more than one designated-person production licence and proposes to sell or provide marihuana plants or seeds produced under each of those licences, a separate application must be submitted in respect of each licence.




**Verification by Minister**

**266** 

- **(1)** The Minister must, after examining the application and information required under section 265, verify if the following conditions are met:
	- **(a)** the designated-person production licence, the authorization to possess and the licensed producer’s licence are valid;
	- **(b)** the designated-person production licence was issued on the basis of the authorization to possess;
	- **(c)** the holder of the authorization to possess has signed the application; and
	- **(d)** the number of marihuana plants to be sold or provided, if any, does not exceed the maximum number of plants specified in the designated-person production licence.

**Notice of authorization**

- **(2)** If the conditions are met, the Minister must send to the holder of the designated-person production licence, the holder of the authorization to possess and the licensed producer a notice of authorization of the proposed sale or provision that
	- **(a)** specifies the names of those persons, the type of licence or authorization held by each person and the numbers of the licences and the authorization;
	- **(b)** describes the marihuana plants or seeds that are to be sold or provided and their quantity;
	- **(c)** specifies that the notice is valid only for the sale or provision in respect of which it is issued;
	- **(d)** specifies that the notice is valid only if the licences referred to paragraph (1)(a) are valid at the time of the sale or provision; and
	- **(e)** specifies that the sale or provision must be completed not later than 30 days after the date of the notice.

**Notice of refusal**

- **(3)** If the conditions are not met, the Minister must send to each of the persons referred to in subsection (2) a notice of refusal of the proposed sale or provision that sets out the reasons for the refusal.

**Opportunity to be heard**

- **(4)** The recipients of a notice of refusal may, within 10 days after the receipt of the notice, provide the Minister with reasons why the refusal is unfounded.




### Repeal


**267** [Repeal]




### Coming into Force



**Registration**

**268** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) to (4), these Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.

**October 1, 2013**

- **(2)** Section 244 comes into force on October 1, 2013.

**March 31, 2014**

- **(3)** Subsections 203(2), 217(2), 221(3) and 222(3) and section 267 come into force on March 31, 2014.

**March 31, 2015**

- **(4)** Subsections 221(4) and 222(4) come into force on March 31, 2015.


