> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2013/19.md)

# Canadian Wheat Board (Interim Operations) Regulations

**SOR/2013-19**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADIAN WHEAT BOARD (INTERIM OPERATIONS) ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2011/c.%2025,%20s.%2014.md)

Date registered: 14 February 2013

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to sections 34, 38 and 41 of the [Canadian Wheat Board (Interim Operations) Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2011/c.%2025,%20s.%2014.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1588-E_hq_13849'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Canadian Wheat Board (Interim Operations) Regulations.

<a name='fn_81000-2-1588-E_hq_13849'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2011, c. 25, s. 14<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Canadian Wheat Board (Interim Operations) Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2011/c.%2025,%20s.%2014.md).

***Lower St. Lawrence*** means the region along the St. Lawrence River between Montréal and Port-Cartier.




## Assignment



**Assignment of right to payment**

**2** 

- **(1)** The right to payment under a certificate issued by the Corporation in accordance with Part 2 of the Act may be assigned if an assignment is requested by
	- **(a)** the executor or administrator of the estate or liquidator of the succession of the producer named in the certificate; or
	- **(b)** a producer who is entitled to the grain referred to in the certificate and who received the certificate as collateral security in respect of a claim against the producer named in the certificate.

**Condition precedent**

- **(2)** The Corporation may require a person referred to in subsection (1), as a condition precedent to the assignment of the right to payment under a certificate, to provide the Corporation with evidence of the person’s right to the assignment.




## Designation of Selected and Accepted Barley



**Designation of barley**

**3** In accordance with subsection 38(1) of the Act, all barley of the following grades that has been delivered to the Corporation to be sold by the Corporation to purchasers who, with the consent of the Corporation, have selected and accepted the barley for use in the production of barley flour, barley malt or pot or pearled barley, is designated for the purposes of Part 2 of the Act:
- **(a)** Select Food Canada Western Two-row;
- **(b)** Select Food Canada Western Six-row;
- **(c)** Select Food Canada Western Two-row Hulless;
- **(d)** Select Food Canada Western Six-row Hulless;
- **(e)** Select Malting Canada Western Two-row;
- **(f)** Select Malting Canada Western Six-row;
- **(g)** Select Malting Canada Western Two-row Hulless;
- **(h)** Select Malting Canada Western Six-row Hulless; and
- **(i)** all other grades of barley.




## Designation of Amber Durum Wheat



**Designation of amber durum wheat**

**4** In accordance with subsection 38(1) of the Act, amber durum wheat of the following grades that is delivered to the Corporation is designated for the purposes of Part 2 of the Act:
- **(a)** No. 1 Canada Western;
- **(b)** No. 2 Canada Western;
- **(c)** No. 3 Canada Western;
- **(d)** No. 4 Canada Western;
- **(e)** No. 5 Canada Western; and
- **(f)** all other grades of amber durum wheat.




## Pooling Points



**Places**

**5** In accordance with subsection 2(3) of the Act, the following places are designated as pooling points for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** Vancouver; and
- **(b)** Lower St. Lawrence.




## Repeals


**6** [Repeals]




## Coming into Force



**August 1, 2013**

**7** These Regulations come into force on August 1, 2013.


