> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2013/238.md)

# New Brunswick Blueberry Order

**SOR/2013-238**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 13 December 2013

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Agricultural Products Marketing Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)<sup><a href='#fn_b'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed New Brunswick Blueberry Order.

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 34, s. 2<br />

<a name='fn_b'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. A-6<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Act*** means the Natural Products Act, S.N.B. 1999, c. N-1.2. (*Loi*)

***blueberries*** means blueberries that are produced in New Brunswick. (*bleuets*)

***Commodity Board*** means Bleuets NB Blueberries constituted in accordance with the Act. (*Office*)

***Supervisory Board*** means the New Brunswick Farm Products Commission continued by the Act. (*Organisme de surveillance*)




## Interprovincial and Export Trade


**2** The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board are authorized to regulate the marketing of blueberries in interprovincial and export trade and, for that purpose, with respect to persons and property situated within New Brunswick, to exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by them in relation to the marketing of blueberries locally within the province under the Act.




## Levies and Charges


**3** The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board, in relation to the powers granted to them by section 2 with respect to interprovincial and export trade, are authorized to
- **(a)** fix, impose and collect levies or charges from persons within New Brunswick who are engaged in the production or marketing of blueberries and, for those purposes, to classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and
- **(b)** use the levies or charges for their purposes, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of any blueberries and the equalization or adjustment among blueberry producers of money realized from the sale of blueberries during any period that they may determine.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


