> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2013/239.md)

# Saskatchewan Mustard Order

**SOR/2013-239**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 13 December 2013

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Agricultural Products Marketing Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)<sup><a href='#fn_b'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Saskatchewan Mustard Order.

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 34, s. 2<br />

<a name='fn_b'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. A-6<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Act*** means The Agri-Food Act, 2004, S.S. 2004, c. A-15.21. (*Loi*)

***Commodity Board*** means the Saskatchewan Mustard Development Commission constituted in accordance with the Act. (*Office*)

***mustard*** means any of the following that is produced in Saskatchewan:
- **(a)** mustard seed or any part of the plant *Sinapis alba*;
- **(b)** non-canola quality types of *Brassica juncea* as set out in the regulations made under the [Seeds Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-8.md);
- **(c)** oil, protein and condiment types of *Sinapis alba*; and
- **(d)** the seed or any part of the plant *Brassica carinata* for industrial use. (*moutarde*)

***Supervisory Board*** means the Agri-Food Council continued by the Act. (*Organisme de surveillance*)




## Interprovincial and Export Trade


**2** The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board are authorized to regulate the marketing of mustard in interprovincial and export trade and, for that purpose, with respect to persons and property situated within Saskatchewan, to exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by them in relation to the marketing of mustard locally within the province under the Act.




## Levies and Charges


**3** The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board, in relation to the powers granted to them by section 2 with respect to interprovincial and export trade, are authorized to
- **(a)** fix, impose and collect levies or charges from persons within Saskatchewan who are engaged in the production or marketing of mustard and, for those purposes, to classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and
- **(b)** use the levies or charges for their purposes, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of any mustard and the equalization or adjustment among mustard producers of money realized from the sale of mustard during any period that they may determine.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


