> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2013/243.md)

# Ontario Grain Order

**SOR/2013-243**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 13 December 2013

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Agricultural Products Marketing Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)<sup><a href='#fn_b'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Ontario Grain Order.

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 34, s. 2<br />

<a name='fn_b'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. A-6<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Commodity Board*** means the Grain Farmers of Ontario. (*Office*)

***grain*** means any combination of grain corn, soybeans and any variety of wheat that are produced in Ontario. (*grain*)

***grain corn*** means corn, other than seed corn, sweet corn or popping corn. (*maïs-grain*)

***Supervisory Board*** means the Ontario Farm Products Marketing Commission. (*Organisme de surveillance*)




## Interprovincial and Export Trade


**2** The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board are authorized to regulate the marketing of grain in interprovincial and export trade and, for that purpose, with respect to persons and property situated within Ontario, to exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by them in relation to the marketing of grain locally within the province.




## Levies and Charges


**3** The Commodity Board and the Supervisory Board, in relation to the powers granted to them by section 2 with respect to interprovincial and export trade, are authorized to
- **(a)** fix, impose and collect levies or charges from persons within Ontario who are engaged in the production or marketing of grain and, for those purposes, to classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and
- **(b)** use the levies or charges for their purposes, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of any grain and the equalization or adjustment among grain producers of money realized from the sale of grain during any period that they may determine.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


