> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/88/6.md)

# Order Respecting the Remission of Customs Duty and a Portion of the Federal Sales Tax on Tires

**SI/88-6**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 6 January 1988

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, considering that it is in the public interest, is pleased hereby, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion and the Treasury Board, pursuant to section 17<sup><a href='#fn_SI-88-6_e_hq_6455'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), to make the annexed Order respecting the remission of customs duty and a portion of the federal sales tax on tires.

<a name='fn_SI-88-6_e_hq_6455'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1980-81-82-83, c. 170, s. 4<br />




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Goodyear Remission Order.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order, ***tires*** means all tires with the exception of solid press-on tires; solid pneumatic-shaped tires; pneumatic tires for forklift trucks and off-the-road bias ply tires in sizes greater than 11.00 × 24.
> SI/92-203, s. 2(F).





## Remission of Customs Duty


**3** Subject to section 5, remission is hereby granted of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) on tires imported by Goodyear Canada Inc., during the period commencing on October 1, 1987 and ending on December 31, 1997.
> SI/88-109, s. 1, SI/92-117, s. 1.





## Remission of Sales Tax


**4** Subject to section 5, remission is hereby granted of the sales tax paid or payable under the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md) on the goods for which customs duty is remitted by this Order, in an amount equal to the difference between
- **(a)** the amount of sales tax paid or payable on the goods, and
- **(b)** the amount of sales tax that would be payable in respect of the goods if the duty paid value used to calculate the sales tax on the goods were reduced by the amount of the remission of customs duty granted under this Order.
> SI/92-203, s. 2(F).





## Conditions


**5** The remission referred to in section 3 is granted on condition that
- **(a)** Goodyear Canada Inc. continues to be a manufacturer of tires in Canada;
- **(b)** remission of customs duty shall not exceed $12.6 million for each of the five twelve month periods commencing on October 1, 1987; and
- **(c)** a claim for remission is made to the Minister of National Revenue within two years after the date of importation of the goods for which remission is claimed.
> SI/88-109, s. 2; SI/92-117, s. 2.



