> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/89/121.md)

# General Permit Authorizing the Exportation of Portable Personal Computers and Associated Software

**SI/89-121**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 10 May 1989

----------

The Secretary of State for External Affairs, pursuant to subsection 6(1) of the Export Permit Regulations, C.R.C., c. 602, hereby issues the annexed General permit authorizing the exportation of portable personal computers and associated software, effective April 14, 1989.

Ottawa, April 14, 1989


<p>JOE CLARK<br />*Secretary of State for*<br />*External Affairs*<br /></p>




## General Export Permit No. Ex. 18



## Short Title


**1** This Permit may be cited as the General Export Permit No. Ex. 18 — Portable Personal Computers and Associated Software.




## General


**2** Subject to section 3, any person may, under the authority of this Permit, export from Canada for a period not exceeding three months, portable personal computers and associated software designed for use in those portable personal computers, on condition that
- **(a)** no transfer of technology takes place as a result of the exportation of the portable personal computers and their associated software; and
- **(b)** the portable personal computers and their associated software are used only by the exporter and only for business or education purposes.



**3** This Permit does not authorize the exportation of goods described in section 2 to any country listed on the [Area Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/81/543.md).
> SI/90-94, s. 1.




**4** Where any goods exported under the authority of this Permit are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), that form shall contain the statement “*Exported under the authority of General Export Permit No. Ex. 18*” or “*Exporté en vertu de la Licence générale d’exportation no Ex. 18*”.
> SI/90-94, s. 1.



