> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/89/132.md)

# Order Respecting the Remission of Customs Duties on Aluminum Smelting Equipment of Aluminerie de Bécancour Inc.

**SI/89-132**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 24 May 1989

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, considering that it is in the public interest to do so, is pleased hereby, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance and the Treasury Board, pursuant to section 23 of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), to make the annexed Order respecting the remission of customs duties on aluminum smelting equipment of Aluminerie de Bécancour Inc.




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Aluminerie de Bécancour Remission Order.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order,

***purchase order number*** means the number that is assigned by Aluminerie de Bécancour Inc. in respect of the purchase of equipment for its smelter in Bécancour, Quebec. (*numéro de bon de commande*)




## Remission


**3** Subject to section 4, remission is hereby granted to Aluminerie de Bécancour Inc. of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) by Aluminerie de Bécancour Inc. on smelting equipment set out in an item of the schedule.




## Conditions


**4** The remission granted by section 3 is on condition that a claim for remission is made to the Minister of National Revenue by Aluminerie de Bécancour Inc. on or before December 31, 1989.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 3)**
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Equipment</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Anode baking tending assembly (purchase order number a0035)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Microprocessors for the control of pot functions (purchase order number a0045)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Anode plane adjustment assembly and fastening devices (purchase order number a0050)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Air manifolds (purchase order number a0068)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Coke and liquid pitch dosage assembly (purchase order number a0069)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Pot tending assembly (purchase order number a0111)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Equipment for anode paste shop (purchase order number c002)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Equipment for anode rodding shop (purchase order number c012)</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SI/92-203, s. 2(E).


