> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2019/153.md)

# Ukraine Reform Conference 2019 — Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2019-153**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 22 May 2019

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to paragraphs 5(1)(c)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3890_hq_24844'>[a]</a></sup>, (f), (g) and (h) of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3890_hq_24845'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Ukraine Reform Conference 2019 — Privileges and Immunities Order.

<a name='fn_81000-2-3890_hq_24844'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3(2)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-3890_hq_24845'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***Meeting*** means the Ministerial portion of the Ukraine Reform Conference, to be held in Toronto, Ontario, on July 1 and 2, 2019. (*réunion*)

***relevant period*** means the period beginning on June 29, 2019 and ending on July 4, 2019. (*période visée*)




## Privileges and Immunities



**Representatives of foreign states**

**2** 

- **(1)** During the relevant period, representatives of a foreign state who are official delegates to the Meeting have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the Meeting, the privileges and immunities set out in paragraphs 11(a) to (f) and section 12, to the extent set out in sections 14 to 16, of Article IV of the Convention.

**Senior Officials**

- **(2)** During the relevant period, senior officials of an international organization have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the Forum, the privileges and immunities comparable to the privileges and immunities accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, other than duty and tax relief privileges.

**Other Officials**

- **(3)** During the relevant period, other officials of an international organization have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the Meeting, the privileges and immunities set out in paragraphs 18(a), (d) and (e) of Article V of the Convention.

**Experts**

- **(4)** During the relevant period, experts who perform missions for an international organization have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the Meeting, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


