> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2019/181.md)

# European Space Agency Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2019-181**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 3 June 2019

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_24454'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_24456'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed European Space Agency Privileges and Immunities Order.

<a name='fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_24454'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3 and 10<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-XXXX_hq_24456'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Agreement*** means the Cooperation Agreement Between the Government of Canada and the European Space Agency, done at Paris on February 12, 2019. (*Accord*)

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***Organization*** means the European Space Agency. (*Organisation*)




## Privileges and Immunities



**Legal capacity**

**2** 

- **(1)** The Organization has the legal capacities of a body corporate.

**Organization**

- **(2)** The Organization has, to the extent set out in paragraph 2 of Article X of the Agreement, the privileges and immunities set out in Articles II and III of the Convention.

**Representatives of Member States**

- **(3)** The representatives of the Member States of the Organization have, to the extent set out in paragraph 5 of Article X of the Agreement, the privileges and immunities set out in Article IV of the Convention. These privileges and immunities are accorded for the purpose of safeguarding the independent exercise of the representatives’ functions in connection with the Organization and not for the personal benefit of the representatives.

**Officials**

- **(4)** The officials of the Organization that are referred to in paragraph 3 of Article X of the Agreement have, to the extent set out in that paragraph, the privileges and immunities set out in Article V of the Convention. These privileges and immunities are accorded in the interest of the Organization and not for the personal benefit of the officials.




## Repeal


**3** [Amendments]




## Coming into Force



**Agreement**

<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2019-181_e_transform_hq_25260'>[*]</a></sup>**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which the Cooperation Agreement Between the Government of Canada and the European Space Agency, done at Paris on February 12, 2019, enters into force.

<a name='fn_SOR-2019-181_e_transform_hq_25260'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Order in force June 13, 2019.]<br />


