> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2019/97.md)

# Corded Window Coverings Regulations

**SOR/2019-97**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 15 April 2019

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-364_E_hc_18974'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-364_E_hc_18975'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Corded Window Coverings Regulations.

<a name='fn_81200-2-364_E_hc_18974'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2016, c. 9, s. 67<br />

<a name='fn_81200-2-364_E_hc_18975'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***cord*** means any of the following:
- **(a)** a band, rope, strap, string, chain, wire or any other component that, when any tension is removed, is capable of folding in every direction; or
- **(b)** any combination of components that are connected end to end that, when any tension is removed, is capable of folding in every direction. (*corde*)

***corded window covering*** means an indoor window covering that is equipped with at least one cord. (*couvre-fenêtre à cordes*)

***loop*** means a shape, the majority of which is formed by a reachable cord, that creates a completely bounded opening. (*boucle*)

***reachable*** with respect to a cord, refers to the part of the cord that any person can touch when the corded window covering has been installed, whether the window covering is fully opened, fully closed or in any position in between. (*atteignable*)




## Specifications



**Small parts**

**2** Every part of a corded window covering that is accessible to a child and is small enough to be totally enclosed in a small parts cylinder as illustrated in Schedule 1 must be affixed to the corded window covering so that the part does not become detached when it is subjected to a force of 90 N applied in any direction.




**Lead content**

**3** Every external component of a corded window covering must not contain more than 90 mg/kg of lead when tested in accordance with the principles set out in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development document entitled OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice, Number 1 of the OECD Series on Principles of Good Laboratory Practice and Compliance Monitoring, ENV/MC/CHEM(98)17, the English version of which is dated January 21, 1998 and the French version of which is dated March 6, 1998.




**Unreachable cords**

**4** A cord that is not reachable must remain so, whether the corded window covering is fully opened, fully closed or in any position in between, throughout the useful life of the corded window covering.




**Reachable cord with one free end — length**

**5** A reachable cord with one free end must not exceed 22 cm in length when it is pulled in any direction by the gradual application of force attaining 35 N.




**Reachable cord between two consecutive contact points — length**

**6** A reachable cord with no free end must not exceed 22 cm in length between two consecutive contact points when it is pulled in any direction by the gradual application of force attaining 35 N.




**Loop created by a reachable cord — perimeter**

**7** If a reachable cord is pulled in any direction by the gradual application of force attaining 35 N, the perimeter of any loop, whether it is existing, created or enlarged, must not exceed 44 cm.




**Two reachable cords**

**8** If two reachable cords with one free end each can be connected to one another, end to end, after each has been pulled in any direction by the gradual application of force attaining 35 N, the following criteria must be met:
- **(a)** the length of the resulting cord must not exceed 22 cm; and
- **(b)** the perimeter of the loop that is created must not exceed 44 cm.




## Information and Advertising



**Reference to [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) or Regulations**

**9** Information that appears on a corded window covering, that accompanies one or that is in any advertisement for one must not make any direct or indirect reference to the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) or these Regulations.




**Presentation — general**

**10** The information required by these Regulations must
- **(a)** appear in both English and French;
- **(b)** be legible and prominently and clearly displayed and, in particular, the characters must be in a colour that contrasts sharply with the background;
- **(c)** remain legible and visible throughout the useful life of the corded window covering under normal conditions of transportation, storage, sale and use; and
- **(d)** in the case of information that is required on the corded window covering, be indelibly printed on the corded window covering itself or on a label that is permanently affixed to it.




**Print**

**11** 

- **(1)** The required information must be printed in a standard sans-serif type that
	- **(a)** is not compressed, expanded or decorative; and
	- **(b)** has a large x-height relative to the ascender or descender of the type, as illustrated in Schedule 2.

**Height of type**

- **(2)** The height of the type is determined by measuring an upper case letter or a lower case letter that has an ascender or descender, such as “b” or “p”.




**Signal words**

**12** 

- **(1)** The signal words “Warning” and “*Mise en garde*” must be in boldfaced, upper case type not less than 5 mm in height.

**Other information — height of type**

- **(2)** All other required information must be in type not less than 2.5 mm in height.




**Required information — general**

**13** The following information must appear on every corded window covering, as well as on any packaging in which the corded window covering is displayed to the consumer:
- **(a)** its model name or model number;
- **(b)** its date of manufacture, consisting of the year and either the month or week, listed in that order;
- **(c)** in the case of a corded window covering that is manufactured in Canada, the name and principal place of business of the manufacturer or the person for whom the corded window covering was manufactured; and
- **(d)** in the case of a corded window covering that is imported for commercial purposes, the name and principal place of business of the manufacturer and the importer.




**Instructions — assembly, installation and operation**

**14** The following instructions must accompany every corded window covering in text, drawings or photographs, or in any combination of them:
- **(a)** how to assemble the corded window covering and a quantitative list of its parts, if it is sold not fully assembled;
- **(b)** how to install it; and
- **(c)** how to operate it.




**Warning**

**15** The following warning or its equivalent must appear on every corded window covering, the packaging of the corded window covering, any accompanying instructions and all of the advertisements for the corded window covering:**WARNING**

**•** STRANGULATION HAZARD — Young children can be strangled by cords. Immediately remove this product if a cord longer than 22 cm or a loop exceeding 44 cm around becomes accessible.

**MISE EN GARDE**

**•** RISQUE D’ÉTRANGLEMENT — Les enfants en bas âge peuvent s’étrangler avec des cordes. Enlevez immédiatement ce produit si une corde mesurant plus de 22 cm devient accessible ou si le contour d’une boucle de plus de 44 cm devient accessible.






## Repeal


**16** [Amendments]




## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2019-97_e_transform_hq_24951'>[*]</a></sup>**17** These Regulations come into force on the second anniversary of the day on which they are published in the Canada Gazette, Part II.

<a name='fn_SOR-2019-97_e_transform_hq_24951'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force May 1, 2021.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Section 2)**
## Small Parts Cylinder
> Image: A sectional view of the small parts cylinder, which is a hollow cylinder with an inner diameter of 31.7 mm. The inner base of the cylinder is diagonal at a 45° angle so that the minimum depth of the cylinder is 25.4 mm and the maximum depth of the cylinder is 57.1 mm.




### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Paragraph 11(1)(b))**
## Standard Sans-serif Type
> Image: The height of the lower case letter “x” is the “x-height”. The part of the lower case letter “b” that is above the x-height is called an “ascender”. The part of the lower case letter “p” that is below the x-height is called a “descender”.


