> [Go to French version](/fr/Lois/Lois%20révisées%20du%20Canada/F/F-15.md)

# Department of Fisheries and Oceans Act

**R.S.C. 1985, c. F-15**


----------



## Short Title



**Short title**

**1** This Act may be cited as the Department of Fisheries and Oceans Act.
> 1978-79, c. 13, s. 2.





## Establishment of the Department



**Department established**

**2** 

- **(1)** There is hereby established a department of the Government of Canada called the Department of Fisheries and Oceans over which the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans appointed by commission under the Great Seal shall preside.

**Minister**

- **(2)** The Minister holds office during pleasure and has the management and direction of the Department.
> 1978-79, c. 13, s. 3.





**Deputy head**

**3** The Governor in Council may appoint an officer called the Deputy Minister of Fisheries and Oceans to hold office during pleasure and to be the deputy head of the Department.
> 1978-79, c. 13, s. 4.





## Powers, Duties and Functions of the Minister



**Powers, duties and functions of Minister**

**4** 

- **(1)** The powers, duties and functions of the Minister extend to and include all matters over which Parliament has jurisdiction, not by law assigned to any other department, board or agency of the Government of Canada, relating to
	- **(a)** sea coast and inland fisheries;
	- **(b)** fishing and recreational harbours;
	- **(c)** hydrography and marine sciences; and
	- **(d)** the coordination of the policies and programs of the Government of Canada respecting oceans.

**Idem**

- **(2)** The powers, duties and functions of the Minister also extend to and include such other matters, relating to oceans and over which Parliament has jurisdiction, as are by law assigned to the Minister.
> 1978-79, c. 13, s. 5.





## Agreements



**Agreements**

**5** The Minister may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, enter into agreements with the government of any province or any agency thereof respecting the carrying out of programs for which the Minister is responsible.
> 1978-79, c. 13, s. 6.





## Annual Report



**Annual report**

**6** The Minister shall, on or before the 31st day of January next following the end of each fiscal year or, if Parliament is not then sitting, on any of the first five days next thereafter that either House of Parliament is sitting, submit to Parliament a report showing the operations of the Department for that fiscal year.
> 1978-79, c. 13, s. 7.



