> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/182.md)

# Ontario Hydro Nuclear Facilities Exclusion Regulations (Use of Tobacco)

**SOR/98-182**

Enabling authorities: 
- [NON-SMOKERS’ HEALTH ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2015%20(4th%20Supp.).md)

Date registered: 19 March 1998

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Labour, pursuant to section 8.2<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-98-182_e_hq_5567'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Non-smokers’ Health Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2015%20(4th%20Supp.).md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-98-182_e_hq_5568'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Ontario Hydro Nuclear Facilities Exclusion Regulations (Use of Tobacco).

<a name='fn_SOR-98-182_e_hq_5567'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1996, c. 12, s. 5<br />

<a name='fn_SOR-98-182_e_hq_5568'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. 15 (4th Supp.)<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the Smoking in the Workplace Act, R.S.O. 1990, c. S.13. (*Loi*)

***employment*** means employment with Ontario Hydro or a person referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition ***nuclear facility***. (*emploi*)

***nuclear facility*** means a nuclear facility in Ontario that is subject to the [Nuclear Safety and Control Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%209.md) or any regulations made under that Act and that is
- **(a)** owned and operated by Ontario Hydro; or
- **(b)** owned or operated by a person other than Ontario Hydro if, on the day on which these Regulations come into force or on a day after that day, it is owned and operated by Ontario Hydro. (*installation nucléaire*)
> SOR/2002-208, s. 44.





## Exclusion


**2** Employment on or in connection with a nuclear facility is hereby excluded from the application of the [Non-smokers’ Health Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2015%20(4th%20Supp.).md), except sections 8.1 and 8.2.




## Application of Ontario Act


**3** Subject to section 4, the Act, as amended from time to time, applies, to the extent that it is relevant, in relation to employment on or in connection with a nuclear facility.



**4** For the purposes of section 3, the reference to “another Act or a regulation” in subsection 11(1) of the Act shall be read as a reference to “another Act or a regulation including the [Nuclear Safety and Control Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%209.md), and any regulations made pursuant to that Act”.
> SOR/2002-208, s. 45.





## Coming into Force


**5** These Regulations come into force on April 1, 1998.


