> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/245.md)

# Canada Turkey Marketing Processors Levy Order

**SOR/98-245**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM PRODUCTS AGENCIES ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-4.md)

Date registered: 16 April 1998

----------

Whereas the Governor in Council has, by the [Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency Proclamation](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20647.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, established the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency pursuant to subsection 16(1)<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Farm Products Agencies Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-4.md)<sup><a href='#footnotec_e'>[c]</a></sup>;

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: C.R.C., c. 647<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1993, c. 3, par. 13(b)<br />

<a name='footnotec_e'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 1993, c. 3, s. 2<br />

Whereas the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency has been empowered to implement a marketing plan pursuant to the Canadian Marketing Agency Proclamation;

Whereas the proposed Canada Turkey Marketing Processors Levy Order, set out in the schedule hereto, is of a class to which paragraph 7(1)(d)<sup><a href='#footnoted_e'>[d]</a></sup> of that Act applies by reason of section 2 of the [Agencies’ Orders and Regulations Approval Order](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20648.md)<sup><a href='#footnotee_e'>[e]</a></sup>, and has been submitted to the National Farm Products Council pursuant to paragraph 22(1)(f) of that Act;

<a name='footnoted_e'><sup>d</sup></a>: S.C. 1993, c. 3, s. 7(2)<br />

<a name='footnotee_e'><sup>e</sup></a>: C.R.C., c. 648<br />

And whereas, pursuant to paragraph 7(1)(d)<sup>[d]</sup> of that Act, the National Farm Products Council is satisfied that the proposed Order is necessary for the implementation of the marketing plan that the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency is authorized to implement, and has approved the proposed Order;

Therefore, the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency, pursuant to paragraph 22(1)(f) of the [Farm Products Agencies Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-4.md)<sup>[c]</sup> and section 10 of Part II of the schedule to the [Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency Proclamation](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20647.md)<sup>[a]</sup>, hereby makes the annexed Canada Turkey Marketing Processors Levy Order.

Ottawa, Ontario, April 13, 1998




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***Agency*** means the Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency. (*Office*)

***Commodity Board*** means, in respect of the Province of
- **(a)** Nova Scotia, the Nova Scotia Turkey Producers’ Marketing Board;
- **(b)** Quebec, the Fédération des producteurs de volailles du Québec;
- **(c)** Ontario, The Ontario Turkey Producers’ Marketing Board;
- **(d)** Manitoba, the Manitoba Turkey Producers;
- **(e)** Saskatchewan, the Saskatchewan Turkey Producers’ Marketing Board;
- **(f)** Alberta, the Alberta Turkey Producers;
- **(g)** British Columbia, the British Columbia Turkey Marketing Board; and
- **(h)** New Brunswick, the New Brunswick Turkey Marketing Board; (*Office de commercialisation*)

***Plan*** means the marketing plan the terms of which are set out in Part II of the schedule to the [Canadian Turkey Marketing Agency Proclamation](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20647.md). (*Plan*)

***processor*** means any person engaged in the slaughtering of turkeys in a regulated area. (*transformateur*)

***regulated area*** means the Province of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Quebec, Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta or British Columbia. (*région réglementée*)

***turkey*** means a turkey of any variety, grade or class. (*dindon*) 
> SOR/2003-94, s. 1.





## Levy


**2** 

- **(1)** A levy is hereby imposed, on each processor, of $0.0050 per kilogram live weight of turkey slaughtered by that processor for marketing in interprovincial or export trade.

- **(2)** The levy shall be paid, if the processor is engaged in processing in a province where
	- **(a)** the Commodity Board is appointed pursuant to subsection 10(4) of the Plan, to that Commodity Board at such address and at such times as that Commodity Board directs; and
	- **(b)** the Commodity Board is not appointed pursuant to subsection 10(4) of the Plan, to the Agency at such times as the Agency directs.

- **(3)** The Commodity Board shall pay the levy received pursuant to paragraph 2(a) to the Agency not later than the last day of the month in which the levy is received by the Commodity Board.
> SOR/2001-243, s. 1; SOR/2003-94, s. 2.





## Expiration


**3** This Order ceases to have effect on December 31, 2004.
> SOR/2001-243, s. 2; SOR/2003-94, s. 3.





## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on July 1, 1998.


