> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/265.md)

# General Export Permit No. 38 — CWC Toxic Chemical and Precursor Mixtures

**SOR/98-265**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 23 April 1998

----------

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 7(1.1)<sup><a href='#fna_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General Export Permit No. 38 — CWC Toxic Chemical and Precursor Mixtures.

<a name='fna_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 107<br />

Ottawa, April 23, 1998


<p>LLOYD AXWORTHY<br />*Minister of Foreign Affairs*<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Permit.

***CWC toxic chemicals and precursors*** means the goods referred to in Group 7 of the schedule to the [Export Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/89/202.md) that are described in any of items 7003 to 7006 of the Guide. (*(produits chimiques toxiques et précurseurs CAC)*)

***Export Controls Division*** means the Export Controls Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. (*Direction des contrôles à l’exportation*)

***Guide*** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the [Export Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/89/202.md). (*Guide*)




## Application


**2** Subject to section 3, this Permit authorizes the exportation of mixtures of CWC toxic chemicals and precursors to any country other than to a country listed on the [Area Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/81/543.md) or to Iraq or North Korea.




## General


**3** 

- **(1)** Any resident of Canada may, under the authority of and in accordance with this Permit, export from Canada mixtures that contain less than 10 per cent by weight of any CWC toxic chemical or precursor described in item 7003 or 7004 of the Guide.

- **(2)** Any resident of Canada may, under the authority of and in accordance with this Permit, export from Canada mixtures that contain less than 25 per cent by weight of any CWC toxic chemical or precursor described in item 7005 or 7006 of the Guide.




## Conditions


**4** It is a condition of this Permit that the exporter
- **(a)** keep at the exporter’s place of business or residence any documents in respect of each export made under this Permit for a period of six years after the date of the export;
- **(b)** on request, make the documents referred to in paragraph (a) available to an officer of the Export Controls Division; and
- **(c)** where mixtures of CWC toxic chemicals and precursors are required to be reported in a prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), insert the expression “GEP-38” or “LGE-38” in the appropriate field of the prescribed form.




## Coming into Force


**5** This Permit comes into force on April 23, 1998.


