> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/266.md)

# General Import Permit No. 108 — CWC Toxic Chemicals and Precursors

**SOR/98-266**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 23 April 1998

----------

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 8(1.1)<sup><a href='#fn_ae'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General Import Permit No. 108 — CWC Toxic Chemicals and Precursors.

<a name='fn_ae'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 108(1)<br />

Ottawa, April 23, 1998


<p>Lloyd Axworthy<br />Minister of Foreign Affairs<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Permit.

***CWC toxic chemicals and precursors*** means the goods that are described in item 74 of the [Import Control List](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20604.md). (*produits chimiques toxiques et précurseurs CAC*)

***Export Controls Division*** means the Export Controls Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. (*Direction des contrôles à l’exportation*)

***Guide*** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the [Export Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/89/202.md). (*Guide*)
> SOR/2019-87, s. 1.





## General


**2** Any resident of Canada may, under the authority of and in accordance with this Permit, import CWC Toxic Chemicals and Precursors from all sources.




## Conditions


**3** It is a condition of this Permit that the importer
- **(a)** keep at the importer’s place of business or residence the documents in respect of each import made under this Permit for a period of six years after the date of the import;
- **(b)** on request, make the documents referred to in paragraph (a) available to an officer of the Export Controls Division; and
- **(c)** where any CWC toxic chemicals and precursors are required to be reported in a prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), insert the statement “GIP-108” or “LGI-108” in the appropriate field of the prescribed form.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Permit comes into force on April 23, 1998.


