> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/277.md)

# Quebec Wood Producers’ Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order

**SOR/98-277**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 1 May 1998

----------

The Quebec Region Wood Producers’ Syndicate, pursuant to sections 3<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and 4 of the [Quebec Wood Order, 1983](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/83/713.md), made by Order in Council P.C. 1983-2885 of September 22, 1983<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Quebec Wood Producers’ Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: SOR/85-1067<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: SOR/83-713<br />

Quebec City, Quebec, December 19, 1997




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***buyer*** means a person who acquires or receives wood that is subject to the Plan from a producer. (*acheteur*)

***Commodity Board*** means the Quebec Region Wood Producers’ Syndicate. (*Syndicat*)

***Plan*** means the *Quebec Region Wood Producers’ Joint Plan*, R.R.Q., 1981, c. M-35, r. 57, as amended from time to time. (*Plan*)

***producer*** means a producer who is subject to the Plan and engaged in the production or marketing of wood. (*producteur*)

***wood*** means wood that is produced in the Quebec Region and that is subject to the Plan. (*bois*)




## Levies


**2** Every producer shall pay to the Commodity Board, for all wood marketed by the producer in interprovincial and export trade, the applicable levies fixed or imposed in the following regulations as amended from time to time:
- **(a)** Règlement sur les contribution des producteurs de bois de la région de Québec, R.R.Q. 1981, c. M-35, r. 56;
- **(b)** Règlement sur la mise en marché du bois des producteurs de bois de la région de Québec, as approved by the Régie des marchés agricoles et alimentaires du Québec pursuant to decision 6038 dated March 18, 1994 (1994, 126 G.O. II, p. 2757); and
- **(c)** Règlement des producteurs de bois de la région de Québec sur le fonds d’aménagement forestier, as approved by the Régie des marchés agricoles et alimentaires du Québec pursuant to decision 4343 dated July 10, 1986 (1986, 118 G.O. II, p. 3269).




## Method of Collection


**3** The producer shall pay all levies payable pursuant to section 2 to the Commodity Board at its headquarters in Quebec City, within the time limits set out in the applicable regulations referred to in that section.



**4** A buyer shall deduct from the purchase price payable to a producer for wood all levies payable by the producer to the Commodity Board pursuant to section 2 and shall remit the levies directly to the Commodity Board at its headquarters in Quebec City.




## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into force on May 1, 1998.


