> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/348.md)

# Safety Management Regulations

**SOR/98-348**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA SHIPPING ACT, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md)

Date registered: 18 June 1998

----------

Whereas, pursuant to subsection 314.1(1)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-98-348_e_hq_1305'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), a copy of the proposed Safety Management Regulations, substantially in the annexed form, was published in the Canada Gazette, Part I, on March 28, 1998 and a reasonable opportunity was afforded to ship owners, masters, seamen and other interested persons to make representations to the Minister of Transport with respect to them;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 314<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-98-348_e_hq_1305'>[a]</a></sup>, paragraphs 657(1)(e)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-98-348_e_hq_1306'>[b]</a></sup> and (k)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-98-348_e_hq_1306'>[b]</a></sup> and subsection 657(2)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-98-348_e_hq_1306'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), hereby makes the annexed Safety Management Regulations.



<a name='fn_SOR-98-348_e_hq_1305'><sup>a</sup></a>: R.S., c. 6 (3rd Supp.), s. 35<br />

<a name='fn_SOR-98-348_e_hq_1306'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. 6 (3rd Supp.), s. 84<br />


## Interpretation
> [SOR/2006-255, s. 2(F)]



**1** 

- **(1)** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Minister*** means the Minister of Transport. (*ministre*)

***SOLAS*** means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, and the Protocol of 1988 relating to the Convention, as amended from time to time. (*SOLAS*)

- **(2)** In these Regulations, the expression ***company*** has the same meaning as in Regulation 1 of Chapter IX of SOLAS.

- **(3)** For the purpose of these Regulations, every reference to ***Administration*** in Chapter IX of SOLAS means the Minister.
> SOR/2001-294, s. 1; SOR/2006-255, s. 3.





## Application


**2** These Regulations apply in respect of Canadian vessels to which Chapter IX of SOLAS applies.
> SOR/2001-294, s. 1; SOR/2006-255, s. 3.





## Company Responsibilities


**3** Every company shall comply with, and ensure that its vessels comply with, Regulations 3, 4.2 and 5 of Chapter IX of SOLAS.
> SOR/2001-294, s. 2; SOR/2006-255, s. 3.





## Issuance of Documents


**4** On application, the Minister shall issue
- **(a)** a Document of Compliance to a company if it meets the requirements of Regulation 4.1 of Chapter IX of SOLAS; and
- **(b)** a Safety Management Certificate to a vessel if the requirements of Regulation 4.3 of Chapter IX of SOLAS are met.
> SOR/2006-255, s. 3.




**5. and 6** [Repealed, SOR/2001-294, s. 3]


