> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/351.md)

# Federal Book Rebate (GST/HST) Regulations

**SOR/98-351**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXCISE TAX ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md)

Date registered: 18 June 1998

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to paragraph (f)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the definition ***specified person*** in subsection 259.1(1) and section 277<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md), hereby makes the annexed Federal Book Rebate (GST/HST) Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1997, c. 10, s. 69.1(1)<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1993, c. 27, s. 125(1)<br />




## Specified Persons


**1** Any charity or qualifying non-profit organization listed in the schedule is prescribed for the purposes of paragraph (f) of the definition ***specified person*** in subsection 259.1(1) of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md).




## Coming into Force


**2** These Regulations are deemed to have come into force on October 24, 1996.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 1)**
- A Book of My Own Literacy Campaign
- Action Read Community Literacy Centre of Guelph
- AlphaPlus Centre/Centre AlphaPlus
- Barrie Literacy Council
- Comox Valley Community Adult Literacy and Learning Society
- COMQUAT Inc.
- Conseil pour l’enseignement de la lecture aux analphabètes de Montréal
- Core Literacy Center, Waterloo Region Inc.
- Drayton Valley Adult Literacy Society
- Friends of the Fredericton Public Library Inc.
- Haldimand-Norfolk Literacy Council
- Journeys Education Association Inc.
- L’ABC communautaire/Péninsule du Niagara
- La magie des mots
- Le Centre La Magie Des Lettres Ottawa Inc.
- Literacy Council of South Temiskaming
- Literacy Council York South
- Literacy Society of South Muskoka
- Metro Toronto Movement for Literacy/Le Rassemblement pour l’alphabétisation de la Communauté urbaine de Toronto
- North Algoma Literacy Coalition
- Oakville Literacy Council
- Organization for Literacy in Lambton
- Peel Adult Learning Network
- Peel Literacy Guild Inc.
- Prince Edward Learning Centre
- Project Literacy Victoria
- PTP - Preparatory Training Programs of Toronto
- Quinte Literacy Group
- Stevenson-Britannia Community Resource Centre
- The Centre for Literacy of Quebec Inc./Le Centre d’alphabétisation du Québec inc.
- Winnipeg Volunteer Reading Aides Inc.
- Yukon Learn Society
> SOR/2001-64, s. 1; SOR/2001-279, s. 1; SOR/2003-340, s. 1; SOR/2005-391, s. 1; SOR/2012-191, s. 18.


