> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/400.md)

# United Nations Sierra Leone Regulations

**SOR/98-400**

Enabling authorities: 
- [UNITED NATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md)

Date registered: 28 July 1998

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to sections 2 and 3 of the [United Nations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md), hereby makes the annexed United Nations Sierra Leone Regulations.




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***aircraft*** includes a helicopter. (*aéronef*)

***arms and related material*** means any type of weapon, ammunition, military vehicle, military equipment or paramilitary equipment, and includes their spare parts. (*armes et matériel connexe*)

***Canadian*** means an individual who is a citizen within the meaning of the [Citizenship Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-29.md) or a body corporate incorporated by or continued under the laws of Canada or a province. (*Canadien*)

***Canadian ship*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md). (*navire canadien*)

***Certificate of Origin***[Repealed, SOR/2004-117, s. 1]

***Committee of the Security Council*** means the Committee of the Security Council of the United Nations established by Security Council Resolution 1132 (1997) of October 8, 1997. (*Comité du Conseil de sécurité*)

***person*** means an individual, a body corporate, a trust, a partnership, a fund, an unincorporated association or organization or a foreign state. (*personne*)

***rough diamond***[Repealed, SOR/2004-117, s. 1]

***Security Council Resolutions*** means Resolution 1132 (1997) of October 8, 1997, Resolution 1156 (1998) of March 16, 1998, Resolution 1171 (1998) of June 5, 1998, Resolution 1306 (2000) of July 5, 2000, and Resolution 1446 (2002) of December 4, 2002, adopted by the Security Council of the United Nations. (*résolutions du Conseil de sécurité*)

***Sierra Leone*** means the Republic of Sierra Leone and includes its political subdivisions. (*Sierra Leone*) 
> SOR/2000-359, s. 2; SOR/2004-117, s. 1.





## Application


**2** These Regulations are binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.




## Prohibitions


**3** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly export, sell, supply or ship arms and related material, wherever situated, to any person in Sierra Leone.



**4** No owner or master of a Canadian ship and no operator of an aircraft registered in Canada shall knowingly carry, cause to be carried or permit to be carried arms and related material destined for any person in Sierra Leone.



**4.1** [Repealed, SOR/2004-117, s. 2]



**5** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly do anything that causes, assists or promotes, or is intended to cause, assist or promote, any act or thing prohibited by sections 3 and 4.
> SOR/2000-359, s. 3; SOR/2004-117, s. 2.





## Exception


**6** No person contravenes these Regulations by doing an act or thing prohibited by any of sections 3 to 5 if, before the person does that act or thing, the Minister of Foreign Affairs issues a certificate to the person stating that
- **(a)** the Security Council Resolutions do not intend that such an act or thing be prohibited; or
- **(b)** the act or thing has been approved by the Security Council of the United Nations or by the Committee of the Security Council.
> SOR/2004-117, s. 2.




**7** [Repealed, SOR/2004–117, s. 2]




## Coming into Force


**8** These Regulations come into force on July 28, 1998.


