> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/45.md)

# Verification of Origin, Tariff Classification and Value for Duty of Imported Goods Regulations (Non-Free Trade Partners)

**SOR/98-45**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CUSTOMS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md)

Date registered: 29 December 1997

----------

Whereas the proposed Verification of Origin, Tariff Classification and Value for Duty of Imported Goods Regulations (Non-Free Trade Partners) give effect, in part, to a public announcement made on October 27, 1997 and are therefore, by virtue of paragraph 164(4)(a.2)<sup><a href='#fna_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md)<sup><a href='#fnb_e'>[b]</a></sup>, not required to be published under subsection 164(3) of that Act;

<a name='fna_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 28, s. 30(3)<br />

<a name='fnb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. 1 (2nd Supp.)<br />

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of National Revenue, pursuant to section 42.01<sup><a href='#fnc_e'>[c]</a></sup> and paragraph 164(1)(i)<sup><a href='#fnd_e'>[d]</a></sup> of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md)<sup><a href='#fnb_e'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Verification of Origin, Tariff Classification and Value for Duty of Imported Goods Regulations (Non-Free Trade Partners).

<a name='fnc_e'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 1997, c. 36, s. 160<br />

<a name='fnd_e'><sup>d</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 28, s. 30(1)<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md). (*Loi*)

***verification*** means a verification conducted under section 42.01 of the Act. (*vérification*)

***verification letter*** means a letter that requests information with respect to the origin, tariff classification or value for duty of goods that are the subject of a verification. (*lettre de vérification*)

***verification questionnaire*** means a questionnaire that requests information with respect to the origin, tariff classification or value for duty of goods that are the subject of a verification. (*questionnaire de vérification*)

***verification visit*** means the entry into a place or premises of the importer or owner of the goods, or the person who accounted for the goods under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the Act, for the purpose of conducting a verification. (*visite de vérification*)




## Methods of Conducting a Verification of Origin, Tariff Classification or Value for Duty of Imported Goods


**2** 

- **(1)** In addition to a verification visit, a designated officer may conduct a verification by one or more of the following methods:
	- **(a)** a review of a verification questionnaire completed by
		- **(i)** the importer or owner of the goods, or
		- **(ii)** the person who accounted for the goods under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the Act;
	- **(b)** a review of a written response received from a person referred to in paragraph (a) to a verification letter; or
	- **(c)** a review of any other information or article received from a person referred to in paragraph (a).

- **(2)** A verification visit referred to in subsection (1) shall be conducted at a reasonable time.




## Coming into Force


**3** These Regulations come into force on January 1, 1998.


