> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/461.md)

# Manitoba Hog Marketing Administration Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order, 1998

**SOR/98-461**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 16 September 1998

----------

The Manitoba Pork est., pursuant to section 4<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Manitoba Hog Order](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/101-200/C.R.C.,%20c.%20154.md)<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Manitoba Hog Marketing Administration Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order, 1998.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: SOR/97-422,<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: C.R.C., c. 154<br />

Winnipeg, Manitoba, September 15, 1998




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***Act*** means The Natural Products Marketing Act of Manitoba, C.C.S.M., c. N20. (*Loi*)

***hog*** means a member of the species *Sus Scrofa L.* (domestic pig) of any kind, grade or class. (*porc*)

***producer*** means any person engaged in the production of hogs in the Province of Manitoba. (*producteur*)

***Producer Board*** means the Manitoba Pork est., continued pursuant to subsection 3(1) of the Manitoba Hog Producers’ Marketing Plan Regulation made under the Act. (*organisation de producteurs*)




## Levies


**2** Every producer shall pay to the Producer Board, in respect of any hogs marketed by the producer in interprovincial or export trade from Manitoba, a levy of
- **(a)** $0.20 per head for each weanling hog; and
- **(b)** $0.85 per head for each other hog.




## Payment


**3** The levies imposed pursuant to section 2 shall be paid by the producer to the Producer Board within seven days after the receipt by the producer of an invoice from the Producer Board.




## Repeal


**4** The Manitoba Hog Marketing Administration Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup> is repealed.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/84-701<br />




## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into force on September 16, 1998.


