> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/462.md)

# Regulations Prescribing Certain Firearms and Other Weapons, Components and Parts of Weapons, Accessories, Cartridge Magazines, Ammunition and Projectiles as Prohibited, Restricted or Non-Restricted

**SOR/98-462**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CRIMINAL CODE](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md)

Date registered: 16 September 1998

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice, pursuant to the definitions “prohibited ammunition”<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, “prohibited device”<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, “prohibited firearm”<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, “prohibited weapon”<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and “restricted firearm”<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> in subsection 84(1) and to subsection 117.15(1)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), hereby makes the annexed Regulations Prescribing Certain Firearms and other Weapons, Components and Parts of Weapons, Accessories, Cartridge Magazines, Ammunition and Projectiles as Prohibited or Restricted.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1995, c. 39, s. 139<br />




## Interpretation


**1** In these Regulations, “semi-automatic”, in respect of a firearm, means a firearm that is equipped with a mechanism that, following the discharge of a cartridge, automatically operates to complete any part of the reloading cycle necessary to prepare for the discharge of the next cartridge.




## Prescription


**2** The firearms listed in Part 1 of the schedule are prohibited firearms for the purposes of paragraph (d) of the definition “prohibited firearm” in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).



**3** The firearms listed in Part 2 of the schedule are restricted firearms for the purposes of paragraph (d) of the definition ***restricted firearm*** in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), except for those firearms that are prohibited firearms within the meaning of paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition ***prohibited firearm*** in that subsection.
> SOR/2015-213, s. 2.




**3.1** The firearms listed in Part 2.1 of the schedule that have a barrel that is less than 470 mm in length, and firearms listed in items 3, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of that Part that do not have a barrel, are restricted firearms for the purposes of paragraph (d) of the definition ***restricted firearm*** in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), except for those firearms that
- **(a)** discharge projectiles in rapid succession during one pressure of the trigger; or
- **(b)** are prohibited firearms within the meaning of paragraph (b) of the definition ***prohibited firearm*** in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).
> SOR/2015-213, s. 2.




**3.2** The firearms listed in Part 2.1 of the schedule that have a barrel that is at least 470 mm in length, and the firearms listed in items 1, 2, 5, 8 and 11 to 15 of that Part that do not have a barrel, are non-restricted firearms for the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition ***non-restricted firearm*** in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), except for those firearms that
- **(a)** discharge projectiles in rapid succession during one pressure of the trigger; or
- **(b)** are prohibited firearms within the meaning of paragraph (b) of the definition ***prohibited firearm*** in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).
> SOR/2015-213, s. 2.




**4** The weapons listed in Part 3 of the schedule are prohibited weapons for the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition “prohibited weapon” in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).



**5** The components and parts of weapons, the accessories and the cartridge magazines listed in Part 4 of the schedule are prohibited devices for the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (d) of the definition prohibited device in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).
> SOR/2018-254, s. 1(E).




**6** The ammunition and projectiles listed in Part 5 of the schedule are prohibited ammunition for the purposes of the definition “prohibited ammunition” in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).




## Coming into Force


**7** These Regulations come into force on December 1, 1998.
> SOR/98-472, s. 1.





### **SCHEDULE** 
***(Sections 2 to 6)***

**PART 1** 
## Prohibited Firearms


### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 3

**1** Any firearm capable of discharging a dart or other object carrying an electrical current or substance, including the firearm of the design commonly known as the Taser Public Defender and any variant or modified version of it.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 8

**2** The firearm known as the SSS-1 Stinger and any similar firearm designed or of a size to fit in the palm of the hand.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 11

**3** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Franchi SPAS 12 shotgun, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Franchi LAW 12 shotgun.


**4** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Striker shotgun, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Striker 12 shotgun and the Streetsweeper shotgun.


**5** The firearm of the design commonly known as the USAS-12 Auto Shotgun, and any variant or modified version of it.


**6** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Franchi SPAS-15 shotgun, and any variant or modified version of it.


**7** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Benelli M1 Super 90 shotgun and the Benelli M3 Super 90 shotgun, and any variants or modified versions of them, with the exception of the
- **(a)** M1 Super 90 Field;
- **(b)** M1 Super 90 Sporting Special;
- **(c)** Montefeltro Super 90;
- **(d)** Montefeltro Super 90 Standard Hunter;
- **(e)** Montefeltro Super 90 Left Hand;
- **(f)** Montefeltro Super 90 Turkey;
- **(g)** Montefeltro Super 90 Uplander;
- **(h)** Montefeltro Super 90 Slug;
- **(i)** Montefeltro Super 90 20 Gauge;
- **(j)** Black Eagle;
- **(k)** Black Eagle Limited Edition;
- **(l)** Black Eagle Competition;
- **(m)** Black Eagle Slug Gun;
- **(n)** Super Black Eagle; and
- **(o)** Super Black Eagle Custom Slug.


**8** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Bernardelli B4 shotgun and the Bernardelli B4/B shotgun, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**9** The firearm of the design commonly known as the American 180 Auto Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it, including the AM-180 Auto Carbine and the Illinois Arms Company Model 180 Auto Carbine.


**10** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Barrett “Light Fifty” Model 82A1 rifle and the Barrett Model 90 rifle, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**11** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Calico M-900 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the M-951 carbine, M-100 carbine and M-105 carbine.


**12** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Iver Johnson AMAC long-range rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**13** The firearm of the design commonly known as the McMillan M87 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the McMillan M87R rifle and the McMillan M88 carbine.


**14** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Pauza Specialties P50 rifle and P50 carbine, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**15** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Encom MK-IV carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**16** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Encom MP-9 and MP-45 carbines, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**17** The firearm of the design commonly known as the FAMAS rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the MAS 223, FAMAS Export, FAMAS Civil and Mitchell MAS/22.


**18** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Feather AT-9 Semi-Auto Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Feather AT-22 Auto Carbine.


**19** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Federal XC-450 Auto Rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Federal XC-900 rifle and Federal XC-220 rifle.


**20** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Gepard long-range sniper rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**21** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Heckler and Koch (HK) Model G11 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**22** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Research Armament Industries (RAI) Model 500 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**23** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Spectre Auto Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**24** The firearm of the design commonly known as the US Arms PMAI “Assault” 22 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**25** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Weaver Arms Nighthawk Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**26** The firearm of the design commonly known as the A.A. Arms AR9 Semi-Automatic Rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**27** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Claridge HI-TEC C, LEC-9 and ZLEC-9 carbines, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**28** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Kimel Industries AR-9 rifle or carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**29** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Grendel R-31 Auto Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**30** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Maadi Griffin Rifle and the Maadi Griffin Carbine, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**31** The firearm of the design commonly known as the AA Arms Model AR-9 carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**32** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Bushmaster Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**33** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Calico M-950 Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the M-110 pistol.


**34** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Encom MK-IV assault pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**35** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Encom MP-9 and MP-45 assault pistols, and any variants or modified versions of them, including the Encom MP-9 and MP-45 mini pistols.


**36** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Federal XP-450 Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the XP-900 Auto Pistol.


**37** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Heckler and Koch (HK) SP89 Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**38** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Intratec Tec-9 Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Tec-9S, Tec-9M, Tec-9MS, and any semi-automatic variants of them, including the Tec-DC9, Tec-DC9M, Tec-9A, Tec-Scorpion, Tec-22T and Tec-22TN.


**39** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Iver Johnson Enforcer Model 3000 Auto Pistol and the Iver Johnson Plainfield Super Enforcer Carbine, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**40** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Skorpion Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**41** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Spectre Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**42** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Sterling Mk 7 pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Sterling Mk 7 C4 and Sterling Mk 7 C8.


**43** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Universal Enforcer Model 3000 Auto Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Universal Enforcer Model 3010N, Model 3015G, Model 3020TRB and Model 3025TCO Carbines.


**44** The firearm of the design commonly known as the US Arms PMAIP “Assault” 22 pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**45** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Goncz High-Tech Long Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Claridge Hi-Tec models S, L, T, ZL-9 and ZT-9 pistols.


**46** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Leader Mark 5 Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**47** The firearm of the design commonly known as the OA-93 assault pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**48** The firearm of the design commonly known as the A.A. Arms AP9 Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**49** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Patriot pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**50** The firearm of the design commonly known as the XM 231S pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the A1, A2 and A3 Flattop pistols.


**51** The firearm of the design commonly known as the AA Arms Model AP-9 pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Target AP-9 and the Mini AP-9 pistols.


**52** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Kimel Industries AP-9 pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**53** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Grendel P-30, P-30 M, P-30 L and P-31 pistols, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**54** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Claridge HI-TEC ZL-9, HI-TEC S, HI-TEC L, HI-TEC T, HI-TEC ZT-9 and HI-TEC ZL-9 pistols, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**55** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Steyr SPP Assault Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**56** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Maadi Griffin Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**57** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Interdynamics KG-99 Assault Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 12

**58** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Sterling Mk 6 Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**59** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Steyr AUG rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**60** The firearm of the design commonly known as the UZI carbine, and any variant or modified version of it, including the UZI Model A carbine and the Mini-UZI carbine.


**61** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the Ingram M10 and M11 pistols, and any variants or modified versions of them, including the Cobray M10 and M11 pistols, the RPB M10, M11, SM10 and SM11 pistols and the SWD M10, M11, SM10 and SM11 pistols.


**62** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Partisan Avenger Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it.


**63** The firearm of the design commonly known as the UZI pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Micro-UZI pistol.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 13

**64** The firearm of the design commonly known as the AK-47 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it except for the Valmet Hunter, the Valmet Hunter Auto and the Valmet M78 rifles, but including the
- **(a)** AK-74;
- **(b)** AK Hunter;
- **(c)** AKM;
- **(d)** AKM-63;
- **(e)** AKS-56S;
- **(f)** AKS-56S-1;
- **(g)** AKS-56S-2;
- **(h)** AKS-74;
- **(i)** AKS-84S-1;
- **(j)** AMD-65;
- **(k)** AR Model .223;
- **(l)** Dragunov;
- **(m)** Galil;
- **(n)** KKMPi69;
- **(o)** M60;
- **(p)** M62;
- **(q)** M70B1;
- **(r)** M70AB2;
- **(s)** M76;
- **(t)** M77B1;
- **(u)** M78;
- **(v)** M80;
- **(w)** M80A;
- **(x)** MAK90;
- **(y)** MPiK;
- **(z)** MPiKM;
- **(z.1)** MPiKMS-72;
- **(z.2)** MPiKS;
- **(z.3)** PKM;
- **(z.4)** PKM-DGN-60;
- **(z.5)** PMKM;
- **(z.6)** RPK;
- **(z.7)** RPK-74;
- **(z.8)** RPK-87S;
- **(z.9)** Type 56;
- **(z.10)** Type 56-1;
- **(z.11)** Type 56-2;
- **(z.12)** Type 56-3;
- **(z.13)** Type 56-4;
- **(z.14)** Type 68;
- **(z.15)** Type 79;
- **(z.16)** American Arms AKY39;
- **(z.17)** American Arms AKF39;
- **(z.18)** American Arms AKC47;
- **(z.19)** American Arms AKF47;
- **(z.20)** MAM70WS762;
- **(z.21)** MAM70FS762;
- **(z.22)** Mitchell AK-22;
- **(z.23)** Mitchell AK-47;
- **(z.24)** Mitchell Heavy Barrel AK-47;
- **(z.25)** Norinco 84S;
- **(z.26)** Norinco 84S AK;
- **(z.27)** Norinco 56;
- **(z.28)** Norinco 56-1;
- **(z.29)** Norinco 56-2;
- **(z.30)** Norinco 56-3;
- **(z.31)** Norinco 56-4;
- **(z.32)** Poly Technologies Inc. AK-47/S;
- **(z.33)** Poly Technologies Inc. AKS-47/S;
- **(z.34)** Poly Technologies Inc. AKS-762;
- **(z.35)** Valmet M76;
- **(z.36)** Valmet M76 carbine;
- **(z.37)** Valmet M78/A2;
- **(z.38)** Valmet M78 (NATO) LMG;
- **(z.39)** Valmet M82; and
- **(z.40)** Valmet M82 Bullpup.


**65** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Armalite AR-180 Sporter carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**66** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Beretta AR70 assault rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**67** The firearm of the design commonly known as the BM 59 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including
- **(a)** the Beretta
	- **(i)** BM 59,
	- **(ii)** BM 59R,
	- **(iii)** BM 59GL,
	- **(iv)** BM 59D,
	- **(v)** BM 59 Mk E,
	- **(vi)** BM 59 Mk I,
	- **(vii)** BM 59 Mk Ital,
	- **(viii)** BM 59 Mk II,
	- **(ix)** BM 59 Mk III,
	- **(x)** BM 59 Mk Ital TA,
	- **(xi)** BM 59 Mk Ital Para,
	- **(xii)** BM 59 Mk Ital TP, and
	- **(xiii)** BM 60CB; and
- **(b)** the Springfield Armory
	- **(i)** BM 59 Alpine,
	- **(ii)** BM 59 Alpine Paratrooper, and
	- **(iii)** BM 59 Nigerian Mk IV.


**68** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Bushmaster Auto Rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**69** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Cetme Sport Auto Rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**70** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Daewoo K1 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Daewoo K1A1, K2, Max 1, Max 2, AR-100, AR 110C, MAXI-II and KC-20.


**71** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Demro TAC-1M carbine, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Demro XF-7 Wasp Carbine.


**72** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Eagle Apache Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**73** The firearm of the design commonly known as the FN-FNC rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the FNC Auto Rifle, FNC Auto Paratrooper, FNC-11, FNC-22 and FNC-33.


**74** The firearm of the design commonly known as the FN-FAL (FN-LAR) rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the FN 308 Model 44, FN-FAL (FN-LAR) Competition Auto, FN-FAL (FN-LAR) Heavy Barrel 308 Match, FN-FAL (FN-LAR) Paratrooper 308 Match 50-64 and FN 308 Model 50-63.


**75** The firearm of the design commonly known as the G3 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Heckler and Koch
- **(a)** HK 91;
- **(b)** HK 91A2;
- **(c)** HK 91A3;
- **(d)** HK G3 A3;
- **(e)** HK G3 A3 ZF;
- **(f)** HK G3 A4;
- **(g)** HK G3 SG/1; and
- **(h)** HK PSG1.


**76** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Galil assault rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the AP-84, Galil ARM, Galil AR, Galil SAR, Galil 332 and Mitchell Galil/22 Auto Rifle.


**77** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Goncz High-Tech Carbine, and any variant or modified version of it.


**78** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Heckler and Koch HK 33 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the
- **(a)** HK 33A2;
- **(b)** HK 33A3;
- **(c)** HK 33KA1;
- **(d)** HK 93;
- **(e)** HK 93A2; and
- **(f)** HK 93A3.


**79** The firearm of the design commonly known as the J & R Eng M-68 carbine, and any variant or modified version of it, including the PJK M-68 and the Wilkinson Terry carbine.


**80** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Leader Mark Series Auto Rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**81** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the MP5 submachine gun and MP5 carbine, and any variants or modified versions of them, including the Heckler and Koch
- **(a)** HK MP5;
- **(b)** HK MP5A2;
- **(c)** HK MP5A3;
- **(d)** HK MP5K;
- **(e)** HK MP5SD;
- **(f)** HK MP5SD1;
- **(g)** HK MP5SD2;
- **(h)** HK MP5SD3;
- **(i)** HK 94;
- **(j)** HK 94A2; and
- **(k)** HK 94A3.


**82** The firearm of the design commonly known as the PE57 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**83** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the SG-550 rifle and SG-551 carbine, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**84** The firearm of the design commonly known as the SIG AMT rifle, and any variant or modified version of it.


**85** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Springfield Armory SAR-48 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the SAR-48 Bush, SAR-48 Heavy Barrel, SAR-48 Para and SAR-48 Model 22.


**86** The firearm of the design commonly known as the Thompson submachine gun, and any variant or modified version of it, including the
- **(a)** Thompson Model 1921;
- **(b)** Thompson Model 1927;
- **(c)** Thompson Model 1928;
- **(d)** Thompson Model M1;
- **(e)** Auto-Ordnance M27A-1;
- **(f)** Auto-Ordnance M27A-1 Deluxe;
- **(g)** Auto-Ordnance M1927A-3;
- **(h)** Auto-Ordnance M1927A-5;
- **(i)** Auto-Ordnance Thompson M1;
- **(j)** Commando Arms Mk I;
- **(k)** Commando Arms Mk II;
- **(l)** Commando Arms Mk III;
- **(m)** Commando Arms Mk 9; and
- **(n)** Commando Arms Mk 45.



**PART 2** 
## Restricted Firearms


### Former Restricted Weapons Order

**1** The firearms of the designs commonly known as the High Standard Model 10, Series A shotgun and the High Standard Model 10, Series B shotgun, and any variants or modified versions of them.


**2** The firearm of the design commonly known as the M-16 rifle, and any variant or modified version of it, including the
- **(a)** Colt AR-15;
- **(b)** Colt AR-15 SPI;
- **(c)** Colt AR-15 Sporter;
- **(d)** Colt AR-15 Collapsible Stock Model;
- **(e)** Colt AR-15 A2;
- **(f)** Colt AR-15 A2 Carbine;
- **(g)** Colt AR-15 A2 Government Model Rifle;
- **(h)** Colt AR-15 A2 Government Model Target Rifle;
- **(i)** Colt AR-15 A2 Government Model Carbine;
- **(j)** Colt AR-15 A2 Sporter II;
- **(k)** Colt AR-15 A2 H-BAR;
- **(l)** Colt AR-15 A2 Delta H-BAR;
- **(m)** Colt AR-15 A2 Delta H-BAR Match;
- **(n)** Colt AR-15 9mm Carbine;
- **(o)** Armalite AR-15;
- **(p)** AAI M15;
- **(q)** AP74;
- **(r)** EAC J-15;
- **(s)** PWA Commando;
- **(t)** SGW XM15A;
- **(u)** SGW CAR-AR;
- **(v)** SWD AR-15; and
- **(w)** any 22-calibre rimfire variant, including the
	- **(i)** Mitchell M-16A-1/22,
	- **(ii)** Mitchell M-16/22,
	- **(iii)** Mitchell CAR-15/22, and
	- **(iv)** AP74 Auto Rifle.



**PART 2.1** 
## Firearms for the Purposes of Sections 3.1 and 3.2

**1** Ceská Zbrojovka (CZ) Model CZ858 Tactical-2P rifle


**2** Ceská Zbrojovka (CZ) Model CZ858 Tactical-2V rifle


**3** Ceská Zbrojovka (CZ) Model CZ858 Tactical-4P rifle


**4** Ceská Zbrojovka (CZ) Model CZ858 Tactical-4V rifle


**5** SAN Swiss Arms Model Classic Green rifle


**6** SAN Swiss Arms Model Classic Green carbine


**7** SAN Swiss Arms Model Classic Green CQB rifle


**8** SAN Swiss Arms Model Black Special rifle


**9** SAN Swiss Arms Model Black Special carbine


**10** SAN Swiss Arms Model Black Special CQB rifle


**11** SAN Swiss Arms Model Black Special Target rifle


**12** SAN Swiss Arms Model Blue Star rifle


**13** SAN Swiss Arms Model Heavy Metal rifle


**14** SAN Swiss Arms Model Red Devil rifle


**15** SAN Swiss Arms Model Swiss Arms Edition rifle



**PART 3** 
## Prohibited Weapons


### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 1

**1** Any device designed to be used for the purpose of injuring, immobilizing or otherwise incapacitating any person by the discharge therefrom of
- **(a)** tear gas, Mace or other gas, or
- **(b)** any liquid, spray, powder or other substance that is capable of injuring, immobilizing or otherwise incapacitating any person.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 2

**2** Any instrument or device commonly known as “nunchaku”, being hard non-flexible sticks, clubs, pipes, or rods linked by a length or lengths of rope, cord, wire or chain, and any similar instrument or device.


**3** Any instrument or device commonly known as “shuriken”, being a hard non-flexible plate having three or more radiating points with one or more sharp edges in the shape of a polygon, trefoil, cross, star, diamond or other geometrical shape, and any similar instrument or device.


**4** Any instrument or device commonly known as “manrikigusari” or “kusari”, being hexagonal or other geometrically shaped hard weights or hand grips linked by a length or lengths of rope, cord, wire or chain, and any similar instrument or device.


**5** Any finger ring that has one or more blades or sharp objects that are capable of being projected from the surface of the ring.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 3

**6** Any device that is designed to be capable of injuring, immobilizing or incapacitating a person or an animal by discharging an electrical charge produced by means of the amplification or accumulation of the electrical current generated by a battery, where the device is designed or altered so that the electrical charge may be discharged when the device is of a length of less than 480 mm, and any similar device.


**7** A crossbow or similar device that
- **(a)** is designed or altered to be aimed and fired by the action of one hand, whether or not it has been redesigned or subsequently altered to be aimed and fired by the action of both hands; or
- **(b)** has a length not exceeding 500 mm.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 4

**8** The device known as the “Constant Companion”, being a belt containing a blade capable of being withdrawn from the belt, with the buckle of the belt forming a handle for the blade, and any similar device.


**9** Any knife commonly known as a “push-dagger” that is designed in such a fashion that the handle is placed perpendicular to the main cutting edge of the blade and any other similar device other than the aboriginal “ulu” knife.


**10** Any device having a length of less than 30 cm and resembling an innocuous object but designed to conceal a knife or blade, including the device commonly known as the “knife-comb”, being a comb with the handle of the comb forming a handle for the knife, and any similar device.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 5

**11** The device commonly known as a “Spiked Wristband”, being a wristband to which a spike or blade is affixed, and any similar device.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 6

**12** The device commonly known as “Yaqua Blowgun”, being a tube or pipe designed for the purpose of shooting arrows or darts by the breath, and any similar device.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 7

**13** The device commonly known as a “Kiyoga Baton” or “Steel Cobra” and any similar device consisting of a manually triggered telescoping spring-loaded steel whip terminated in a heavy calibre striking tip.


**14** The device commonly known as a “Morning Star” and any similar device consisting of a ball of metal or other heavy material, studded with spikes and connected to a handle by a length of chain, rope or other flexible material.



### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 8

**15** The device known as “Brass Knuckles” and any similar device consisting of a band of metal with one or more finger holes designed to fit over the fingers of the hand.



**PART 4** 
## Prohibited Devices


### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 9

**1** Any electrical or mechanical device that is designed or adapted to operate the trigger mechanism of a semi-automatic firearm for the purpose of causing the firearm to discharge cartridges in rapid succession.


**2** Any rifle, shotgun or carbine stock of the type known as the “bull-pup” design, being a stock that, when combined with a firearm, reduces the overall length of the firearm such that a substantial part of the reloading action or the magazine-well is located behind the trigger of the firearm when it is held in the normal firing position.



### Former Cartridge Magazine Control Regulations

**3** 

- **(1)** Any cartridge magazine
	- **(a)** that is capable of containing more than five cartridges of the type for which the magazine was originally designed and that is designed or manufactured for use in
		- **(i)** a semi-automatic handgun that is not commonly available in Canada,
		- **(ii)** a semi-automatic firearm other than a semi-automatic handgun,
		- **(iii)** an automatic firearm whether or not it has been altered to discharge only one projectile with one pressure of the trigger,
		- **(iv)** the firearms of the designs commonly known as the Ingram M10 and M11 pistols, and any variants or modified versions of them, including the Cobray M10 and M11 pistols, the RPB M10, M11 and SM11 pistols and the SWD M10, M11, SM10 and SM11 pistols,
		- **(v)** the firearm of the design commonly known as the Partisan Avenger Auto Pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, or
		- **(vi)** the firearm of the design commonly known as the UZI pistol, and any variant or modified version of it, including the Micro-UZI pistol; or
	- **(b)** that is capable of containing more than 10 cartridges of the type for which the magazine was originally designed and that is designed or manufactured for use in a semi-automatic handgun that is commonly available in Canada.

- **(2)** Paragraph (1)(a) does not include any cartridge magazine that
	- **(a)** was originally designed or manufactured for use in a firearm that
		- **(i)** is chambered for, or designed to use, rimfire cartridges,
		- **(ii)** is a rifle of the type commonly known as the “Lee Enfield” rifle, where the magazine is capable of containing not more than 10 cartridges of the type for which the magazine was originally designed, or
		- **(iii)** is commonly known as the U.S. Rifle M1 (Garand) including the Beretta M1 Garand rifle, the Breda M1 Garand rifle and the Springfield Armoury M1 Garand rifle;
	- **(b)** is not a reproduction and was originally designed or manufactured for use in a firearm that
		- **(i)** is commonly known as the Charlton Rifle,
		- **(ii)** is commonly known as the Farquhar-Hill Rifle, or
		- **(iii)** is commonly known as the Huot Automatic Rifle;
	- **(c)** is of the “drum” type, is not a reproduction and was originally designed or manufactured for use in a firearm commonly known as
		- **(i)** the .303 in. Lewis Mark 1 machine-gun, or any variant or modified version of it, including the Lewis Mark 1*, Mark 2, Mark 2*, Mark 3, Mark 4, Lewis SS and .30 in. Savage-Lewis,
		- **(ii)** the .303 in. Vickers Mark 1 machine-gun, or any variant or modified version of it, including the Mark 1*, Mark 2, Mark 2*, Mark 3, Mark 4, Mark 4B, Mark 5, Mark 6, Mark 6* and Mark 7, or
		- **(iii)** the Bren Light machine-gun, or any variant or modified version of it, including the Mark 1, Mark 2, Mark 2/1, Mark 3 and Mark 4;
	- **(d)** is of the “metallic-strip” type, is not a reproduction and was originally designed or manufactured for use in conjunction with the firearm known as the Hotchkiss machine-gun, Model 1895 or Model 1897, or any variant or modified version of it, including the Hotchkiss machine-gun, Model 1900, Model 1909, Model 1914 and Model 1917, and the Hotchkiss machine-gun (Enfield), Number 2, Mark 1 and Mark 1*;
	- **(e)** is of the “saddle-drum” type (*doppeltrommel* or *satteltrommel*), is not a reproduction and was originally designed or manufactured for use in the automatic firearms known as the MG-13, MG-15, MG-17, MG-34, T6-200 or T6-220, or any variant or modified version of it; or
	- **(f)** is of the “belt” type consisting of a fabric or metal belt, is not a reproduction and was originally designed or manufactured for the purpose of feeding cartridges into a automatic firearm of a type that was in existence before 1945.

- **(3)** Paragraph (1)(b) does not include any cartridge magazine that
	- **(a)** is of the “snail-drum” type (*schneckentrommel*) that was originally designed or manufactured for use in a firearm that is a handgun known as the Parabellum-Pistol, System Borchardt-Luger, Model 1900, or “Luger”, or any variant or modified version of it, including the Model 1902, Model 1904 (Marine), Model 1904/06 (Marine), Model 1904/08 (Marine), Model 1906, Model 1908 and Model 1908 (Artillery) pistols;
	- **(b)** was originally designed or manufactured for use in a firearm that is a semi-automatic handgun, where the magazine was manufactured before 1910;
	- **(c)** was originally designed or manufactured as an integral part of the firearm known as the Mauser Selbstladepistole C/96 (“broomhandle”), or any variant or modified version of it, including the Model 1895, Model 1896, Model 1902, Model 1905, Model 1912, Model 1915, Model 1930, Model 1931, M711 and M712; or
	- **(d)** was originally designed or manufactured for use in the semi-automatic firearm that is a handgun known as the Webley and Scott Self-Loading Pistol, Model 1912 or Model 1915.

- **(4)** A cartridge magazine described in subsection (1) that has been altered or re-manufactured so that it is not capable of containing more than five or ten cartridges, as the case may be, of the type for which it was originally designed is not a prohibited device as prescribed by that subsection if the modification to the magazine cannot be easily removed and the magazine cannot be easily further altered so that it is so capable of containing more than five or ten cartridges, as the case may be.

- **(5)** For the purposes of subsection (4), altering or re-manufacturing a cartridge magazine includes
	- **(a)** the indentation of its casing by forging, casting, swaging or impressing;
	- **(b)** in the case of a cartridge magazine with a steel or aluminum casing, the insertion and attachment of a plug, sleeve, rod, pin, flange or similar device, made of steel or aluminum, as the case may be, or of a similar material, to the inner surface of its casing by welding, brazing or any other similar method; or
	- **(c)** in the case of a cartridge magazine with a casing made of a material other than steel or aluminum, the attachment of a plug, sleeve, rod, pin, flange or similar device, made of steel or of a material similar to that of the magazine casing, to the inner surface of its casing by welding, brazing or any other similar method or by applying a permanent adhesive substance, such as a cement or an epoxy or other glue.



**PART 5** 
## Prohibited Ammunition


### Former Prohibited Weapons Order, No. 10

**1** Any cartridge that is capable of being discharged from a commonly available semi-automatic handgun or revolver and that is manufactured or assembled with a projectile that is designed, manufactured or altered so as to be capable of penetrating body armour, including KTW, THV and 5.7 x 28 mm P-90 cartridges.


**2** Any projectile that is designed, manufactured or altered to ignite on impact, where the projectile is designed for use in or in conjunction with a cartridge and does not exceed 15 mm in diameter.


**3** Any projectile that is designed, manufactured or altered so as to explode on impact, where the projectile is designed for use in or in conjunction with a cartridge and does not exceed 15 mm in diameter.


**4** Any cartridge that is capable of being discharged from a shotgun and that contains projectiles known as “fléchettes” or any similar projectiles.


> SOR/2015-213, s. 3.


