> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/464.md)

# Regulations Prescribing Antique Firearms

**SOR/98-464**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CRIMINAL CODE](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md)

Date registered: 16 September 1998

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice, pursuant to the definitions ***prescribed***<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and ***antique firearm***<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> in subsection 84(1) and to subsection 117.15(1)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), hereby makes the annexed Regulations Prescribing Antique Firearms.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1995, c. 39, s. 139<br />




## Prescription


**1** The firearms listed in the schedule are antique firearms for the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition ***antique firearm*** in subsection 84(1) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).




## Coming into Force


**2** These Regulations come into force on December 1, 1998.
> SOR/98-472, s. 3.





### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 1)**
## Black Powder Reproductions
**1** A reproduction of a flintlock, wheel-lock or matchlock firearm, other than a handgun, manufactured after 1897.





## Rifles

**2** A rifle manufactured before 1898 that is capable of discharging only rim-fire cartridges, other than 22 Calibre Short, 22 Calibre Long or 22 Calibre Long Rifle cartridges.


**3** A rifle manufactured before 1898 that is capable of discharging centre-fire cartridges, whether with a smooth or rifled bore, having a bore diameter of 8.3 mm or greater, measured from land to land in the case of a rifled bore, with the exception of a repeating firearm fed by any type of cartridge magazine.







## Shotguns

**4** A shotgun manufactured before 1898 that is capable of discharging only rim-fire cartridges, other than 22 Calibre Short, 22 Calibre Long or 22 Calibre Long Rifle cartridges.


**5** A shotgun manufactured before 1898 that is capable of discharging centre-fire cartridges, other than 10, 12, 16, 20, 28 or 410 gauge cartridges.







## Handguns

**6** A handgun manufactured before 1898 that is capable of discharging only rim-fire cartridges, other than 22 Calibre Short, 22 Calibre Long or 22 Calibre Long Rifle cartridges.


**7** A handgun manufactured before 1898 that is capable of discharging centre-fire cartridges, other than a handgun designed or adapted to discharge 32 Short Colt, 32 Long Colt, 32 Smith and Wesson, 32 Smith and Wesson Long, 32-20 Winchester, 38 Smith and Wesson, 38 Short Colt, 38 Long Colt, 38-40 Winchester, 44-40 Winchester, or 45 Colt cartridges.





