> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/5.md)

# Licensed Dealers for Controlled Drugs and Narcotics (Veterinary Use) Fees Regulations

**SOR/98-5**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 17 December 1997

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health and the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 19.1(a)<sup><a href='#fna_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md) and, considering that it is in the public interest to remit certain debts, pursuant to subsection 23(2.1)<sup><a href='#fnb_e'>[b]</a></sup> of that Act, hereby makes the annexed Licensed Dealers for Controlled Drugs and Narcotics Fees Regulations (1056).

<a name='fna_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 6<br />

<a name='fnb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 7(2)<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***controlled drug*** has the same meaning as in subsection G.01.001(1) of the [Food and Drug Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/801-900/C.R.C.,%20c.%20870.md). (*drogue contrôlée*)

***dealer’s licence*** means
- **(a)** a licence issued under section G.02.003.2 of the [Food and Drug Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/801-900/C.R.C.,%20c.%20870.md); or
- **(b)** a licence issued under section 9.2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md). (*licence de distributeur autorisé*)

***dealer’s licence for controlled drugs***[Repealed, SOR/2011-83, s. 2]

***dealer’s licence for narcotics***[Repealed, SOR/2011-83, s. 2]

***narcotic*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Narcotic Control Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1001-1100/C.R.C.,%20c.%201041.md). (*stupéfiant *)

***package/label*** means to put a controlled drug or narcotic in its immediate container or to affix the inner or outer label to the controlled drug or narcotic. (*emballer-étiqueter*)

***sell*** includes offer for sale, expose for sale, have in possession for sale and distribute, whether or not the distribution is made for consideration. (*vente*)

***site*** means
- **(a)** a building specified in a dealer’s licence and located more than one kilometre from any other building specified in the licence; or
- **(b)** more than one building specified in a dealer’s licence, all of which are located within one kilometre of each other. (*site*)
> SOR/2011-83, s. 2; SOR/2018-69, s. 82.





## Application



**Application**

**1.1** These Regulations apply only to applicants for dealer’s licences that relate only to controlled drugs for veterinary use or to narcotics for veterinary use.
> SOR/2011-83, s. 3.





**Non-application**

**2** These Regulations do not apply to
- **(a)** [Repealed, SOR/2011-83, s. 4]
- **(b)** any branch or agency of the Government of Canada or of the government of a province; or
- **(c)** any person or organization engaged only in scientific investigation.
> SOR/2011-83, s. 4.





## Fees



**Dealer’s licence**

**3** 

- **(1)** The fee for a dealer’s licence is $1,750 for each site at which the licensed activities are to be conducted.

**First year of activities**

- **(2)** If the applicant has not completed their first calendar year of conducting activities under the licence, the fee for a dealer’s licence is $875 for each site at which the licensed activities are to be conducted.
> SOR/2011-83, s. 5.





**Remission**

**4** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection 6(2), if the fee is greater than an amount equal to 1.5% of the applicant’s actual gross revenue from the sale, testing and packaging/labelling of controlled drugs and narcotics for the previous calendar year, remission is granted of the difference between those amounts if the applicant provides with their application for the renewal of their dealer’s licence a statement signed by the individual responsible for the applicant’s financial affairs that sets out the actual gross revenue.

**Statement — first year of activities**

- **(2)** If the applicant has not completed their first calendar year of conducting activities under a dealer’s licence, the applicant must provide the statement within 90 days after the day on which that year ends in order to be eligible for the remission.
> SOR/2011-83, s. 5; SOR/2018-69, s. 83.





**Timing of payment**

**5** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the fee is payable on the day on which the dealer’s licence is issued.

**Timing of deferred payment**

- **(2)** In the case of an applicant referred to in subsection 4(2), the fee is payable on the expiry of the 90-day period if the renewed dealer’s licence is issued.
> SOR/2011-83, s. 5; SOR/2018-69, s. 84.





**Audited sales records**

**6** 

- **(1)** If the Minister of Health determines, on the basis of any information available to the Minister, that the statement provided under subsection 4(1) is not adequate to determine the actual gross revenue referred to in that subsection, the Minister may require, for the purpose of determining the fee payable or the amount of the remission, the applicant to provide sales records that have been audited by a qualified independent auditor.

**Omission**

- **(2)** If the applicant fails to provide the Minister with the audited sales records within 90 days after the day on which the Minister requested those records, the difference between the fee and the amount already paid is immediately payable.

**Difference payable**

- **(3)** If the audited sales records establish that the amount already paid is less than the amount payable, the difference between those amounts is immediately payable.

**Difference remitted**

- **(4)** If the audited sales records establish that the amount already paid is greater than the amount payable, remission is granted of an amount equal to the difference between those amounts, which the Minister must repay to the applicant.
> SOR/2011-83, s. 5.





**Exception**

**7** An applicant for a dealer’s licence is not entitled to a remission under subsection 4(1) if, in order to conduct an activity referred to in the application, the applicant must also hold an establishment licence under Division 1A of Part C of the [Food and Drug Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/801-900/C.R.C.,%20c.%20870.md).
> SOR/2011-83, s. 5.




**8** [Repealed, SOR/2011-83, s. 5]



**9** [Repealed, SOR/2011-83, s. 5]



**10** [Repealed, SOR/2011-83, s. 5]



**11** [Repealed, SOR/2011-83, s. 5]



**12** [Repealed, SOR/2018-69, s. 85]



**13** [Repealed, SOR/2018-69, s. 85]




## Coming into Force



**Coming into force**

**14** These Regulations come into force on January 1, 1998.


