> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/98/89.md)

# Blouses, Shirts and Co-Ordinates Remission Order, 1998

**SOR/98-89**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CUSTOMS TARIFF](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)

Date registered: 29 December 1997

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 101 of the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Blouses, Shirts and Co-ordinates Remission Order, 1998.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: R.S., c. 41 (3rd Supp.)<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***blouse and shirt*** means a woman’s or girl’s apparel made from a woven fabric, designed to cover the upper part of the body, whether or not having sleeves and whether or not having a full or partial opening that starts at the neckline, but does not include such apparel as an undershirt, T-shirt, and sweatshirt; (*blouse et chemisier*)

***co-ordinated apparel*** means a woman’s or girl’s jacket that is co-ordinated with a skirt or pants or a co-ordinated two-piece dress, linked by colour, shape or detail with the express purpose of being sold and worn together, but does not include such apparel as an athletic suit, outerwear apparel and co-ordinated denim apparel. (*coordonné*)




## Remission


**2** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 1998 and ending on December 31, 2004.



**2.1** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2006.
> SOR/2005-9, s. 5.




**2.2** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted  of 75% of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or  co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2007 and ending on December 31, 2007.
> SOR/2005-9, s. 5.




**2.3** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted of 50% of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or  co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending on December 31, 2008.
> SOR/2005-9, s. 5.




**2.3.1** Subject to sections 3 and 4, a further remission of 25% of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) is hereby granted to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending on December 31, 2008.
> SOR/2008-256, s. 14.




**2.4** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted of 75% of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2009 and ending on December 31, 2009.
> SOR/2005-9, s. 5; SOR/2008-256, s. 15.




**2.5** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted of 50% of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending on December 31, 2010.
> SOR/2008-256, s. 16.




**2.6** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted of 50% of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2011 and ending on December 31, 2011.
> SOR/2008-256, s. 16.




**2.7** Subject to sections 3 and 4, remission is hereby granted of 50% of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), to a women’s blouse, shirt or co-ordinated apparel manufacturer, set out in the schedule in respect of blouses, shirts or co-ordinated apparel imported into Canada by the manufacturer during the period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2012.
> SOR/2008-256, s. 16.




**3** The remission granted under this Order in respect of imports during any calendar year shall not exceed the total amount of customs duties remitted to the manufacturer under the [Blouses and Shirts Remission Order](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/88/332.md) in respect of blouses and shirts imported during 1995.



**4** Remission is granted on condition that a claim for remission is made to the Minister of National Revenue within five years after the day on which the blouses, shirts and co-ordinated apparel are imported into Canada.
> SOR/2001-315, s. 7.





## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into effect on December 29, 1997.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
- 122206 Canadian Fleecewear
- 141368 Canada Inc.
- 158329 Canada Inc. (Les Modes Clientele)
- 2791056 Canada Inc.
- 3103-2964 Quebec Inc.
- 526832 Ontario Ltd.
- 537508 Ontario Ltd.
- Aero Garments Ltd.
- Algo Industries Ltd.
- A & R Dress Co. Inc.
- Basic International
- Beker Fashion Enterprises
- Berkeley Dress Co. Ltd.
- Bottoms Up Fashions Inc.
- Boutique Jacob Inc.
- Boutique Knitting Mills Inc.
- Bozart Knitting Mills Ltd.
- Café au Lait Fashions Inc.
- Camice Ltd.
- Carla Jane Dress & Sportswear
- Carlton Enterprises Ltd.
- Chemises Ltée JML Shirt Ltd.
- Cin Cin Industries Inc.
- Clockwise Fashions Ltd.
- Collection Conrad C. Inc.
- Collection Leyla Inc.
- Colour Works Clothing Co. Ltd.
- C.Q.C. Manufacturing
- Créations Marie Galante Inc.
- Creations A.I. Inc.
- Creations Dan Valy Inc.
- Creations Les Enfants Joyeux
- Dash Manufacturing Ltd.
- David Bradley Fashions Inc.
- Dizaro Clothing Inc.
- Elite Blouse & Skirt (1999) Mfg. Ltd.
- Explosive Fashions Inc.
- Fashion Gallery Industries Inc.
- Femme de Carriere
- Fersten Originals Inc.
- First Class Fashions
- Franco Mirabelli Design Inc.
- Fred David International Inc.
- Freda’s Originals
- Freed & Freed International
- Glensport Inc.
- Hallmark Garments Mfg.
- Happy Rompers Inc.
- Hiroko Originals Inc.
- Honey Fashions Ltd.
- I.D. Fashion Ltd.
- Importations Jeremy D Limited
- Impromptu Fashions
- Jackie K
- Jalpico
- J.C. Kids Apparel Inc.
- Jeno Neuman & Fils Inc.
- JMJ Fashions Inc.
- Jones Apparel Group Canada Inc.
- Katescorp Inc.
- Kimme-O
- Koret Canada Inc.
- Kovac Manufacturing
- K.T.H. Creations Inc.
- Lacharite Apparels (1989)
- La Chemise Lapointe Inc.
- Lana-Lee Fashions Inc.
- Layette Minimome Inc.
- Le Groupe Vêtements Yonkers
- Le Kidz
- Leslie Belle Manufacturing Ltd.
- Les Collections Raffinalla Ltée
- Les Modes Internationales
- Les Modes JMS Fashions Int’l
- Les Modes Premiere Class Inc.
- Linda Lundstrom Ltd.
- Lionel Victor Limited
- Looks Sportswear Ltd.
- Louben Sportswear Inc.
- Marli Fashions (Div. 171685 Can. Inc.)
- Meris Fashion Imports
- Michael Phillips Ltée
- Milton Selections Inc.
- Mister Leonard Inc.
- Moda Vero Limited
- Mode Pinpoint Fashions
- Moderama Sportswear Inc.
- Modes Mercedes Inc.
- Modes Precious Times Fashions Inc.
- Mr. Jax Fashions Inc.
- Multiwear Inc.
- Nancy G Dress Corp
- Niba Original Ltée
- Nu-Mode Dress Co.
- Nygard International Ltd.
- Oodles Children’s Wear Inc.
- O T L Industries Inc.
- Pantel Inc.
- Paris Sportswear Ltd.
- Paris Star Knitting Mills Inc.
- Powerline
- Private Collections Ltd.
- Private Source Inc.
- Put-Em On Fashions
- Re-Al-Ge (Canada) Inc.
- Royal Shirt Co. Ltd.
- S C & Co. (Sportswear) Inc.
- Simon Chang Concepts Inc.
- Sports Collection Paris Inc.
- Style 1 Designs Ltd.
- Style Queen Dress Inc. (Robes)
- Tell-Ex Fashions International
- Tess Sportswear Ltd.
- Texport Trading Inc.
- Top This Fashions Inc.
- Tribal Sportswear Inc.
- Universal Sales Inc.
- Utility Garments Inc.
- Valia Sportswear Ltd.
- Venture III Industries Inc.
- Vêtements de Sport Looks Ltée
- Vêtements Junior Club X Inc.
- Vêtements Va-Yola Ltée
- West Coast Apparel Inc.
- Young Scene Sportswear Inc.
> SOR/2001-315, s. 8.


