> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/89/222.md)

# Regulations Respecting Navigation in the Burlington Canal

**SOR/89-222**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA SHIPPING ACT, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md)

Date registered: 28 April 1989

----------

Whereas the Governor in Council is satisfied that an emergency situation exists and that compliance with subsection 635.12(1) of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), as enacted by S.C. 1987, c. 7, s. 75, would therefore be prejudicial to the public interest.

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to subsections 635.1(1) and 635.11(1) of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), as enacted by S.C. 1987, c. 7, s. 75, is pleased hereby to revoke the Burlington Canal Regulations, C.R.C., c. 1408, and to make the annexed Regulations respecting navigation in the Burlington Canal, in substitution therefor.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Burlington Canal Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***bridge*** means the lift bridge over the canal; (*pont*)

***canal*** means the Burlington Canal that links Lake Ontario and Hamilton Harbour; (*canal*)

***mile*** means the international nautical mile measuring 1,852 m in length. (*mille*)




## General


**3** No vessel shall move in the canal at a speed greater than,
- **(a)** if the vessel is 80 m or less in length, seven miles per hour, or
- **(b)** if the vessel is more than 80 m in length, the lowest speed at which the vessel can be navigated safely.



**4** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), no vessel shall, while moving within 0.5 mile of the canal towards the canal, pass another vessel going in the same direction.

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of vessels less than 15 m in length.
> SOR/95-372, s. 10(F).




**5** Where the person who has the conduct of a vessel requires the bridge to be opened, the person shall make a request to the bridgemaster by radiotelephone or, if such communication is not possible, the person shall sound three long blasts on the whistle or horn of the vessel.



**6** 

- **(1)** No vessel 15 m or more in length shall enter the canal, except in an emergency, unless the signal light on the bridge shows green in the direction of the vessel.

- **(2)** Where a vessel 15 m or more in length enters the canal while the signal light on the bridge does not show green in its direction, it shall moor at the north wall of the canal and shall not proceed until the signal light shows green in its direction.



**7** 

- **(1)** Where a vessel less than 15 m in length enters the canal while the bridge is not opened or while a flashing blue light is not shown in its direction, the vessel shall wait at the side of the canal to its starboard.

- **(2)** No vessel less than 15 m in length shall move within 90 m of the bridge unless the bridge is opened or a flashing blue light is shown in its direction.



**8** No vessel shall operate under sail in the canal.


