> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/89/235.md)

# Order Prescribing the Fees and Charges to be Paid for the Provision of Airborne Remote Sensing Services

**SOR/89-235**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 3 May 1989

----------

The Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, pursuant to Order in Council P.C. 1982-1125 of April 8, 1982<sup><a href='#fn1star_e'>[*]</a></sup> made pursuant to paragraph 13(b) of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), hereby revokes the Airborne Remote Sensing Services Fees Order, 1986 made on September 2, 1986<sup><a href='#fn2star_e'>[**]</a></sup> and makes the annexed Order prescribing the fees and charges to be paid for the provision of airborne remote sensing services in substitution therefor.

<a name='fn1star_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: SI/82-85, 1982 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1559<br />

<a name='fn2star_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: SOR/86-927, 1986 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 3861<br />

Ottawa, May 2, 1989


<p>JAKE EPP<br />*Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources*<br /></p>




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Airborne Remote Sensing Services Fees Order, 1989.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order,

***CCT*** means computer-compatible tape; (*BM*)

***HDDT*** means high density digital tape; (*BNHD*)

***NAPL*** means the National Air Photo Library; (*PNA*)

***SAR*** means Synthetic Aperture Radar. (*ROS*)




## Fees and Charges


**3** Where the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources provides a person with an airborne remote sensing service described in Column I of an item of the schedule, that person shall pay to the Minister the fees and charges set out in Column II of that item.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 3)**
<table>
<h4>Fees and Charges for Airborne Remote Sensing Services</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Fees and Charges</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Production, by special arrangement with the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing Airborne Operations Section, of single channel of annotated quicklook image on VHS video cassette or on dry silver paper from image HDDT recorded by the CCRS Airborne Operations Section, per system hour (charges under item 9(a) not included)</td>
<td>$  210.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Transcription of data from HDDT recorded by CCRS Operational Airborne Sensor System to CCT,</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** per mount of HDDT

</td>
<td>341.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** per CCT (9 track, 6,250 bpi, 2,400 ft. reel) produced from same mount of HDDT

</td>
<td>105.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Production of digital SAR imagery by processing SAR signal CCT originating from item 2(b) to SAR image CCT (9 track, 6,250 bpi, 2,400 ft. reel), including 0.2 m × 0.25 m Polaroid print of image on tape, per input block, or portion thereof, of 8,192 range lines (independent of the number of range samples in each range line)</td>
<td>1,102.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Geometric correction of image on CCT originating from item 2(b), 3 or 5 for each group of spatially coincident spectral bands independent of the number of spectral bands per group (9 track, 6,250 bpi, 2,400 ft. reel),</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** standard geometric image processing with aircraft motion removed, per million output pixels

</td>
<td>105.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** product registration to ground control points

</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(i)** set-up, per flight line

</td>
<td>210.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(ii)** processing, per million output pixels

</td>
<td>105.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** comparative geometric product registration to common control points in another scene

</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(i)** set-up, per flight line

</td>
<td>210.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(ii)** processing, per million output pixels

</td>
<td>105.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Radiometric processing of image on CCT originating from item 2(b) or item 4 (9 track, 6,250 bpi, 2,400 ft. reel),</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** line summing to improve signal to noise ratio and dynamic range in linear array scanner imagery (MEIS II) (independent of number of spectral bands), per million output pixels

</td>
<td>5.20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** reflectance transformation of a single band of linear array scanner imagery (MEIS II), per million output pixels

</td>
<td>5.20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Standard processing of scatterometer data on CCT, originating from item 2(b), to backscatter cross sections, by special arrangement with a Canada Centre for Remote Sensing project scientist,</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** for first minute of a flight line

</td>
<td>210.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** for each additional minute of a flight line

</td>
<td>21.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Transcription of CCT’s, delivered to Canada Centre for Remote Sensing, from 9 track, 6,250 bpi, 2,400 ft. reel to:</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** 9 track, 1,600 bpi, 1,200 or 2,400 ft. reel or

</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 9 track, 800 bpi, 1,200 or 2,400 ft. reel, per output reel (charges under item 9(b) not included

</td>
<td>10.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Master negative from remotely sensed imagery on CCT (Standard format also known as LANDSAT ground station operators working group format) or HDDT recorded by CCRS operational airborne sensor system (NAPL charges for photographic processing not included) per frame of imagery</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** 185 mm black and white negative

</td>
<td>65.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 185 mm colour negative

</td>
<td>130.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Materials expended</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** for purposes of item 1:

</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(i)** per 60 minute VHS video cassette

</td>
<td>8.70</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(ii)** 150 mm quicklook type 7772 dry silver paper, per metre

</td>
<td>1.20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(iii)** 220 mm width (Integrated Radar Imaging System) type 7772 dry silver paper, per metre

</td>
<td>2.80</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** for purposes of item 7:

</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(i)** CCT (½ in. × 1,200 ft.), per 8½ in. reel

</td>
<td>12.60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(ii)** CCT (½ in. × 2,400 ft.), per 10½ in. reel

</td>
<td>21.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Handling, including packing, invoicing, shipment made by parcel post and postage to Canadian (not foreign) destinations, per shipment of data</td>
<td>10.50</td>
</tr>
</table>


