> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/89/332.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Management and Operation of the Graving Dock at Esquimalt, British Columbia

**SOR/89-332**

Enabling authorities: 
- [DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND GOVERNMENT SERVICES ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2016.md)

Date registered: 22 June 1989

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Public Works and the Treasury Board, pursuant to sections 24, 28 and 29 of the Public Works Act, is pleased hereby to revoke the Esquimalt Graving Dock Regulations, 1984, made by Order in Council P.C. 1984-2169 of June 21, 1984<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-89-332_e_hq_8326'>[*]</a></sup>, and to make the annexed Regulations respecting the management and operation of the graving dock at Esquimalt, British Columbia, in substitution therefor.

<a name='fn_SOR-89-332_e_hq_8326'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/84-476, 1984 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 2826<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Esquimalt Graving Dock Regulations, 1989.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***agent*** means the person who makes an application in respect of a vessel; (*agent*)

***application*** means an application for the use of the dry dock, in the form set out in Schedule I; (*demande*)

***contractor***[Repealed, SOR/2003-303, s. 8]

***day*** means, in respect of the calculation of a dock charge, any period of 24 consecutive hours; (*jour*)

***Director***[Repealed, SOR/2003-303, s. 8]

***dock charge*** means any tolls or dues set out in Column II of an item of Schedule II; (*droits de cale sèche*)

***dockmaster*** means the person hired by the agent to supervise and control the docking and undocking of a vessel in the dry dock; (*maître de cale sèche*)

***dry dock*** means the graving dock at Esquimalt, British Columbia; (*cale sèche*)

***dry dock property*** means the dry dock that is under the management, charge and direction of the Minister and all other property of the Government of Canada that is used or is for use in connection with the dry dock, other than property that is under lease to any third party; (*terrain de la cale sèche*)

***entry book*** means a book recording reservations for the dry dock and other information in respect of the dry docking of vessels; (*registre*)

***Gas Hazard Control Standards*** means the Standard for the Control of Gas Hazards in Vessels to be Repaired or Altered, published in March 1984 by the Ship Safety Branch of the Department of Transport, having reference number TP 3177E; (*Normes pour la protection contre les dangers des gaz*)

***gross tonnage*** means, in respect of a vessel, the gross tonnage measured in accordance with the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969 or, in the case of a vessel that is registered under the tonnage measurement system in force before that Convention, a gross registered ton; (*jauge brute*)

***Manager*** means the officer of the Department who is responsible for the management of the dry dock and the dry dock property; (*gestionnaire*)

***marine chemist*** has the same meaning as in the Gas Hazard Control Standards; (*chimiste de la marine*)

***section***, for the purposes of parking vehicles, means the space allocated for 50 parking spaces; (*section*)

***Superintendent***[Repealed, SOR/95-462, s. 1]

***working day*** means any day other than a holiday; (*jour ouvrable*)

***working vessel*** means a vessel on which repair, refit, conversion or construction is being undertaken. (*navire faisant l’objet de travaux*)
> SOR/95-462, s. 1; SOR/2003-303, s. 8.





## Responsibility


**3** Where a vessel uses the dry dock or dry dock property, the agent shall ensure that the vessel does not enter, remain in or leave the dry dock except in accordance with these Regulations.




**PART I** 
## Dry Docking of Vessels



### Entry into the Dry Dock


**4** 

- **(1)** No vessel shall enter the dry dock unless authorized to do so by the Manager in accordance with subsection (2).

- **(2)** The Manager may authorize a vessel to enter the dry dock if
	- **(a)** an application is completed in respect of the vessel and submitted to the Manager;
	- **(b)** the agent and the Manager agree on the date of entry of the vessel into the dry dock and the estimated duration of its stay in the dry dock;
	- **(c)** the date of entry and estimated duration referred to in paragraph (b) and the name of the vessel are recorded in the entry book;
	- **(d)** the agent signs the entry book;
	- **(e)** the dock charge set out in Column II of item 1 of Schedule II is paid to the Manager;
	- **(f)** any cash deposit or bond required under section 8 is given to the Manager; and
	- **(g)** written information that indicates the dockmaster’s complete record and experience in the docking of vessels together with a copy of the docking procedures, including operating, communications and equipment procedures to be used by the dockmaster in docking the vessel, are submitted to the Manager.

- **(3)** The Manager may refuse to authorize a vessel to enter the dry dock if the activities referred to in subsection (2) are not carried out or if, after reviewing the information submitted pursuant to that subsection, the Manager concludes on reasonable grounds that the docking of the vessel will not be carried out safely.
> SOR/95-462, ss. 2, 9.




**5** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), where a vessel fails to enter the dry dock on the date agreed on pursuant to paragraph 4(2)(b),
	- **(a)** the name of the vessel shall be deleted from the entry book;
	- **(b)** subject to subsection (3), the vessel may not enter the dry dock on a subsequent date pursuant to the authorization obtained pursuant to subsection 4(2); and
	- **(c)** the agent shall, within three days after the date agreed on, pay to the Manager
		- **(i)** the applicable dock charges set out in Column II of item 2 of Schedule II for each day the dry dock is vacant by reason of the vessel having failed to enter the dry dock on that date, and
		- **(ii)** the applicable dock charge set out in Column II of an item of Schedule II payable for any service provided in connection with the preparation of the dry dock for entry by the vessel.

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of a vessel that fails to enter the dry dock on the date agreed on where that failure is a result of
	- **(a)** permission given by the Manager under section 7 in respect of another vessel; or
	- **(b)** weather conditions.

- **(3)** The Manager may, in respect of the entry into the dry dock of a vessel referred to in subsection (1) or (2), re-record in the entry book the name of the vessel and a subsequent date agreed on by the Manager and the agent, if the dry dock is available on that subsequent date.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**6** 

- **(1)** Before a vessel enters the dry dock, the Manager shall provide the agent with the number of keel and bilge blocks necessary for the shape of that vessel.

- **(2)** The keel blocks provided in accordance with subsection (1) shall be 1.55 m high.

- **(3)** The agent shall set up the bilge blocks for the vessel no later than three hours before the vessel is expected to enter the dry dock, and the Manager shall set up the keel blocks.
> SOR/95-462, ss. 3, 9.





### Priorities


**7** 

- **(1)** The Manager may permit a vessel to enter the dry dock before other vessels, the names of which are recorded in the entry book, if the vessel appears to be in a condition that necessitates its immediate entry into the dry dock.

- **(2)** [Repealed, SOR/2003-303, s. 9]
> SOR/95-462, s. 9; SOR/2003-303, s. 9.





### Foreign Vessels


**8** Where an application is made in respect of a vessel that is not of Canadian registry and the agent is not a resident of Canada, the Manager may, before recording the name of that vessel in the entry book, require that agent to give a cash deposit or post a bond, with two sureties, in an amount that is sufficient to pay the dock charges for the period for which application is made for that vessel.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.





### Damage to Dry Dock


**9** Where damage to the dry dock or dry dock property is caused by a vessel, the crew of the vessel, the agent, an independent contractor or an employee of the agent or independent contractor, or by the failure of any equipment owned or operated by the agent, by the independent contractor or by an employee of the agent or independent contractor, the agent shall deposit with the Manager an amount of money that is sufficient to indemnify the Crown for the damage or shall post a bond in that amount, with two sureties.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9; SOR/2003-303, s. 10(F).





### Inspection of Vessels


**10** Where a vessel enters the dry dock, the agent shall, within three working days after the dry dock is pumped out, inspect the vessel and, if necessary, revise the estimated duration of stay recorded in the entry book pursuant to paragraph 4(2)(c) and report that revision to the Manager for recording in the entry book.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.





### Lighting of Vessels


**11** Every vessel that is in the dry dock shall, between sunset and sunrise, display adequate lighting at each end of every gangway of the vessel.




### Protection of the Dry Dock and Dry Dock Property


**12** 

- **(1)** The Manager shall manage and protect the dry dock and dry dock property.

- **(2)** The Manager shall dispose of fish trapped as a result of pumping out the dry dock.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9; SOR/2003-303, s. 11(F).





### Movement of Vessels


**13** 

- **(1)** Where a vessel enters the dry dock, the main engines and the bow and stern thrusters of the vessel shall be turned off before the vessel or any part thereof passes through the dry dock entrance.

- **(2)** Where a vessel leaves the dry dock, the main engines and the bow and stern thrusters of the vessel shall not be turned on until the entire vessel has passed through the dry dock entrance.
> SOR/95-462, s. 4.




**14** Where a vessel enters or leaves the dry dock, the agent shall have a pilot on board and shall have available the number and kind of tugboats necessary for the proper handling of the vessel.
> SOR/95-462, s. 4.





### Duration of Stay in the Dry Dock


**15** No vessel shall remain in the dry dock longer than the estimated or revised duration of stay recorded in the entry book pursuant to paragraph 4(2)(c) or section 10, as the case may be, and any further time that may be permitted by the Manager pursuant to section 16.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**16** Where repairs to a vessel in the dry dock cannot be completed within the duration of stay recorded in the entry book pursuant to paragraph 4(2)(c) or section 10, the Manager may permit that vessel to remain in the dry dock for such further time as is necessary to complete the repairs if no other vessel’s name is recorded in the entry book for entry into the dry dock during that time.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**17** 

- **(1)** Where, pursuant to section 15, a vessel leaves the dry dock before the repairs to the vessel have been completed, the agent shall, on any re-entry of the vessel to complete those repairs, pay to the Manager the applicable dock charge set out in Column II of item 3 of Schedule II.

- **(2)** The Manager shall set up the keel blocks and the agent shall set up the bilge blocks required for the re-entry of the vessel into the dry dock.
> SOR/95-462, ss. 5, 9.





### Cleaning of Dry Dock


**18** 

- **(1)** Before a vessel leaves the dry dock, the agent shall
	- **(a)** remove from the dry dock and adjacent dry dock property all equipment, machinery other than machinery that is permanently affixed to the dry dock and adjacent dry dock property, and materials and scaffolding used in any repairs to the vessel;
	- **(b)** remove from the dry dock and dry dock property, including gutters, water tunnels, sumps, valves, pumps and other dry dock equipment contained therein, any oil and any residue that have escaped from the vessel;
	- **(c)** remove from the dry dock and dry dock property all trace of sand from sandblasting operations, all other refuse, and any deleterious substance, as defined in subsection 34(1) of the [Fisheries Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-14.md), produced during any repairs to the vessel; and
	- **(d)** do any other cleaning of the dry dock and dry dock property that is required as a result of the dry docking of the vessel.

- **(2)** Where the dry dock has been pumped out after the departure of a vessel, the agent shall return all bilge blocks, except for one row of bilge blocks on each side of the keel blocks, to the dry dock walls, and shall reposition any keel blocks that may have been moved.
> SOR/95-462, s. 6.





### Explosive Material and Oil Carried on Board Vessels


**19** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and (3), where a vessel that has been authorized to enter the dry dock in accordance with subsection 4(2) carries any explosive material on board, the vessel shall not enter the dry dock until the explosive material has been removed from the vessel.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), where a vessel that has been authorized to enter the dry dock in accordance with subsection 4(2) carried on its last voyage any oil with a flash-point below 23°C, the vessel shall not enter the dry dock until the agent submits to the Manager a certificate issued by a marine chemist in accordance with the Gas Hazard Control Standards.

- **(3)** Subsection (2) does not apply in respect of a vessel carrying, in a bunker or tank, oil intended for consumption on board the vessel if no work is to be done to the bunker or tank or to the fuelling or ventilation pipes of the bunker or tank or in the area immediately surrounding the bunker or tank or the fuelling or ventilation pipes of the bunker or tank.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**20** Where, as a result of a delay caused by compliance with section 19, a vessel enters the dry dock after the date agreed on pursuant to paragraph 4(2)(b), the agent shall pay to the Manager the applicable dock charge set out in Column II of item 2 of Schedule II for each day the dry dock is kept vacant while awaiting the entry of the vessel.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.





### Use of Dry Dock and Dry Dock Property


**21** 

- **(1)** No person shall use keel blocks, bilge blocks or other dry dock property without the authorization of the Manager.

- **(2)** The Manager shall authorize the use of keel blocks, bilge blocks or other dry dock property if that property is available.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**22** No person shall damage or set adrift any blocks, poles, shores, planks, machines, stores, water cisterns, scaffolding, pipes, tackle or other dry dock property.



**23** No person shall throw timber or other heavy materials onto the steps or stonework of the dry dock or shall pass any timber or other heavy materials into or out of the dry dock other than by the means provided for that purpose.



**24** [Repealed, SOR/2003-303, s. 12]



**25** 

- **(1)** No vessel shall be bunkered in the dry dock without the authorization of the Manager to do so.

- **(2)** The Manager may authorize a vessel to be bunkered in the dry dock if
	- **(a)** a fire watch is kept at the fuelling connection on the vessel; and
	- **(b)** all work on the exterior of the vessel is suspended for the duration of the bunkering operations.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**26** Any vessel lying afloat in the dry dock or moored at a wharf or to the dry dock entrance, or to any part of the dry dock property other than the dry dock, shall be kept ready to move immediately on request by the Manager.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**27** 

- **(1)** No person, other than a person authorized by the Manager pursuant to subsection (2), shall load, unload or place on the dry dock property any shipment of marine equipment or cargo that is destined for or originates from any vessel or any shipment that is intended for transshipment at one of the Government of Canada wharves on the dry dock property.

- **(2)** The Manager may authorize a person to load, unload or place on the dry dock property any equipment, cargo or shipment described in subsection (1) where the only space available is on the dry dock property and the agent pays the applicable dock charge set out in column II of Schedule II.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9; SOR/2003-303, s. 13(E).




**28** 

- **(1)** No person shall store on the dry dock property any cargo, building materials, equipment or machinery that is destined for or originates from a vessel using any part of the dry dock property or that belongs to or is in the custody or control of the agent except as authorized by the Manager pursuant to subsection (2).

- **(2)** The Manager may authorize a person to store any cargo, building materials, equipment or machinery referred to in subsection (1), where the cargo, building materials, equipment or machinery is necessary for repairing or building a vessel and the agent pays the dock charge set out in column II of item 7 of Schedule II.
> SOR/95-462, ss. 7, 9.





### Refuse


**29** Where the crew of a vessel lives on board the vessel while the vessel is in the dry dock, the agent shall remove from the dry dock property all sewage, garbage, sweepings, ashes or other refuse from the vessel.



**30** 

- **(1)** Where a vessel is in the dry dock, the agent shall keep the entrances to the water-closets and urinals of that vessel locked or fastened.

- **(2)** No person shall use the water-closets or urinals of a vessel while it is in the dry dock.




### Winter Conditions


**31** 

- **(1)** Where, on the third day preceding the day on which a vessel is expected to enter or leave the dry dock, the temperature at the dry dock is below 0°C, the agent shall on that day give notice to the Manager of the planned entry or exit of the vessel in order to permit the heating of the caissons and related equipment.

- **(2)** Where, on the day a vessel is expected to leave the dry dock, the temperature at the dry dock is below 0°C, the agent shall secure the keel and bilge blocks in such a manner that the blocks cannot be carried away by the vessel if they are frozen to the hull of the vessel when the vessel leaves the dry dock.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**32** 

- **(1)** No vessel shall enter or leave the dry dock if the temperature at the dry dock is below 0°C unless the caissons and related equipment have been heated and the keel and bilge blocks have been secured in accordance with subsection 31(2).

- **(2)** The agent shall, within seven days after the vessel leaves the dry dock, replace any keel or bilge blocks that have been carried away by the vessel, whether or not those blocks were secured in accordance with subsection 31(2).




**PART II** 
## Dock Charges Payable for Services and Use of the Dry Dock and Dry Dock Property


**33** For the purpose of calculating the dock charges payable for use of the dry dock or dry dock property or for services provided in respect of a vessel,
- **(a)** a vessel is docked when it enters the dry dock and the gate of the dry dock is closed, and is undocked when the dry dock and the dry dock property are cleaned as required by section 18 and the vessel leaves the dry dock;
- **(b)** subject to paragraph (c), where a vessel has two gross tonnages on entry into the dry dock, dock charges shall be calculated in respect of the gross tonnage that is the greater; and
- **(c)** where a vessel is lengthened or modified while in the dry dock in a manner that results in a change in the gross tonnage of the vessel, dock charges shall be calculated in respect of the average of the gross tonnage of the vessel immediately before it entered the dry dock and the gross tonnage of the vessel immediately after the lengthening or modification.



**34** 

- **(1)** Where a vessel uses the dry dock or dry dock property or is provided with a service set out in Column I of an item of Schedule II, the agent shall pay to the Manager the applicable dock charge set out in that Schedule for that use or that service.

- **(2)** Subject to section 35 and subsection 36(2) the dock charge set out in Column II of item 4 of Schedule II is payable in respect of a vessel to the extent that it exceeds the amount of the dock charge set out in Column II of item 1 of that Schedule.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**35** No dock charges are payable in respect of a vessel during a period in which the vessel is detained in the dry dock by weather, ice or tide conditions if during that period no work is done that would require the dry docking of the vessel.



**36** 

- **(1)** The Manager may detain a vessel in the dry dock where repairs to another vessel in the dry dock have not been completed.

- **(2)** No dock charges are payable in respect of a vessel detained pursuant to subsection (1) if, during that detention, no repairs are effected that would require the dry docking of the vessel.
> SOR/95-462, s. 9.




**37** 

- **(1)** No person shall undock a vessel from the dry dock until the dock charges owing in respect of the vessel have been paid.

- **(2)** Where dock charges owing in respect of a vessel are not paid and the vessel is in the dry dock, the Minister may seize the vessel and its cargo and, after giving the agent 60 days notice in writing, may sell the vessel or its cargo or both.




**PART III** 
## Fines


**38** Every person who contravenes any provision of these Regulations is liable to a fine in the amount of $400.




### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(Section 2)**
## Application for the Use of Esquimalt Graving Dock at Esquimalt, British Columbia
Department of Public Works and Government Services, Esquimalt, British Columbia


I (We), the undersigned, hereby make application for the vessel described below to be dry-docked in the Dry Dock, for the purpose and time stated, on the_________________________day of_________________________, 20_________________________


<table>
<tr>
<td>Name of Vessel</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Port of Registry</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Owner’s Name</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Owner’s Address</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Master’s Name</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Master’s Address</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Agent’s Name</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Agent’s Address</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dockmaster’s Name</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Gross Tonnage</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Length, Overall</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Length between Perpendiculars</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Breadth, Extreme</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Draft, Forward</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Draft, Aft</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Type of Vessel (*screw, sailing, not self-propelled, etc.*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Engines: Steam, Gasoline or Oil</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Fuel: Coal or Oil</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Keel: Bar or Flat (*If bar, state depth*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rise of Floor Amidships</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

Is there any explosive matter on board?_________________________ (*If so, describe*)





Does this vessel carry, or did it carry on its last voyage, any oil with a flash-point below 23°C?





Is there any oil escaping from the vessel? (*If so, to what extent?*)








Estimated number of days dry dock is required


Purpose for which dry dock is required





Special features of ship, such as the length of “cut up” forward and aft, camber of keel, if any, and underwater form (*State if “usual”; if “unusual”, give particulars*)














**(1)** 


(*Signature of Agent*)


**(2)** 


(*Signature of Witness*)


Date_________________________20_________________________


> SOR/95-462, s. 8; SOR/2003-303, s. 14.




### **SCHEDULE II** 
**(Sections 2, 4, 5, 17, 20, 27, 28 and 34)**
## Tariff of Dock Charges
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Services and Facilities</th>
<th>Dock Charges</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Booking</td>
<td>$3,500.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Draining</td>
<td>5,000.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Dockage for a vessel per unit of gross tonnage (minimum 2 500 tons), per day</td>
<td>0.22</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Dockage for cargo on board per tonne of cargo, per day</td>
<td>0.14</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Berthage at North Landing Wharf, per metre, per day</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(a) working vessels</td>
<td>3.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(b) non-working vessels</td>
<td>3.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Berthage at South Jetty, per metre, per day</td>
<td>2.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Storage of cargo, building materials, equipment or machinery, per tonne, per day</td>
<td>1.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Top wharfage, per tonne (minimum 50 tonnes) (one-time charge)</td>
<td>2.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Crane per hour</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(a) with light hook</td>
<td>75.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(b) with main hook, up to 50 tonne lift</td>
<td>150.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(c) with main hook, over 50 tonne lift</td>
<td>375.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Mobile Crane, per hour</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(a) 9-tonne crane</td>
<td>65.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(b) 20-tonne crane</td>
<td>75.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Forklift per hour</td>
<td>55.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Air Compressor, per manifold hour</td>
<td>35.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Motor work boat, per hour</td>
<td>160.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Fresh water, per cubic metre</td>
<td>0.55</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Electric power, per kilowatt hour</td>
<td>0.15</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Parking, per section, per shift</td>
<td>100.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Tie-up and letting go</td>
<td>700.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Flood-lights</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(a) per standard (high mast), per hour</td>
<td>2.25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(b) per caisson (4 lights), per hour</td>
<td>1.25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Overtime labour of dry-dock employees, per employee, per hour</td>
<td>50.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>Commissionaire service, per employee, per hour</td>
<td>25.00</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/95-462, s. 8.


