> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/80/482.md)

# Regulations Governing Details of Maps, Plans, Profiles, Drawings, Specifications and Books of Reference Required by the Railway Act

**SOR/80-482**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA TRANSPORTATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 26 June 1980

----------

C.T.C. 1980-6 RAIL

The Canadian Transport Commission, pursuant to section 46 of the National Transportation Act and sections 108 to 111, 116, 118, 119, 122, 124, 141, 193 and 209 of the Railway Act, hereby revokes the Railway Maps, Plans and Profiles Regulations, C.R.C., c. 1193, and makes the annexed Regulations respecting details of maps, plans, profiles, drawings, specifications and books of reference required by the Railway Act.

Dated at Ottawa, this 25th day of June, 1980




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as Details of Maps, Plans, Profiles, Drawings, Specifications and Books of Reference Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations

***Act*** means the Railway Act;

***Committee*** means the Railway Transport Committee of the Canadian Transport Commission;

***railway company*** means a railway company subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.




## Application


**3** These Regulations apply to a railway company submitting
- **(a)** maps pursuant to section 108 of the Act; and
- **(b)** plans, profiles, drawings, specifications or books of reference pursuant to sections 109 to 111, 116, 118, 119, 122, 124, 141, 193 and 209 of the Act.




## General


**4** Maps, plans, profiles, drawings, specifications and books of reference shall be submitted, in four copies, to the Secretary of the Committee on tracing linen, mylar or good quality paper.



**5** Plans, profiles, drawings, specifications and books of reference shall be numbered, dated and certified as required by the Act.



**6** Unless otherwise ordered by the Committee,
- **(a)** plans shall be drawn to a scale of not less than 1:5000;
- **(b)** horizontal profiles shall be drawn to a scale of not less than 1:5000;
- **(c)** vertical profiles shall be drawn to a scale of not less than 1:250; and
- **(d)** profiles shall be based on mean sea level.




## Additional Right-of-way


**7** 

- **(1)** When additional land is required for a right-of-way to accommodate slopes and side ditches, as allowed under section 140 of the Act, four copies of a cross-section plan shall be submitted to the Secretary of the Committee.

- **(2)** A cross-section plan referred to in subsection (1) shall
	- **(a)** be taken no more than every 50 m;
	- **(b)** extend to the limits of the additional right-of-way; and
	- **(c)** be drawn to a scale of not less than 1:200.




## Crossings and Junctions


**8** An application under section 193 of the Act for leave to construct a crossing and junction shall include a plan and profile showing all tracks affected by the crossing and junction for a distance of 1500 m in all directions.


