> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/80/55.md)

# Regulations Respecting Stabilization of the Price of Potatoes in Eastern Canada in 1978

**SOR/80-55**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 7 January 1980

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to section 2, paragraphs 8.2(1)(b), 10(1)(c) and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting stabilization of the price of potatoes in Eastern Canada in 1978.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Potato Stabilization Regulations, 1978.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***potatoes*** means potatoes grown in Canada in 1978 and sold on or before June 30, 1979; (*pommes de terre*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing potatoes in Canada. (*producteur*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Potatoes are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purpose of determining the prescribed price of potatoes for the year 1978, the percentage of the base price of potatoes for that year is hereby prescribed at 95 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of potatoes for the year 1978 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 95 per cent of the base price of potatoes for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** 

- **(1)** In this section "potatoes" means potatoes of the Canada Number 1 and Canada Number 1 Large grades as defined in the Canada Agricultural Products Standards Act or, in the case of potatoes sold by a producer for processing, potatoes that are the equivalent of such grades.

- **(2)** Subject to section 7, the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(c) of the Act, make payments to or for the benefit of producers in the Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland, on a maximum of ten thousand hundredweight of potatoes per producer, of $0.40 per hundredweight of potatoes grown by those producers in those provinces including any potatoes sold by those producers grown, classified and sold as seed potatoes.



**7** Where producers are carrying on business in a production unit, as determined by the Board, the Board may make payments in respect of each producer in the production unit, but such payments shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum payable by the Board under section 6 to or for the benefit of three producers.


