> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/80/587.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Greenhouse Cucumbers Marketed During the Period Commencing on January 1, 1979 and Ending on August 31, 1979

**SOR/80-587**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 24 July 1980

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to section 2, paragraphs 8.2(1)(b), 10(1)(c) and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of greenhouse cucumbers marketed during the period commencing on January 1, 1979, and ending on August 31, 1979.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Greenhouse Cucumber Stabilization Regulations, 1979.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing greenhouse cucumbers in Canada; (*producteur*)

***greenhouse cucumbers*** means cucumbers of the grades Canada No. 1 and Canada No. 2 as described in the [Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/201-300/C.R.C.,%20c.%20285.md)
- **(a)** grown in greenhouses in Canada, and
- **(b)** marketed in Canada during the period commencing on January 1, 1979 and ending on August 31, 1979. (*concombres de serre*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Greenhouse cucumbers are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purposes of determining the prescribed price of greenhouse cucumbers for the year 1979, the percentage of the base price of greenhouse cucumbers for that year is hereby prescribed at 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of greenhouse cucumbers for the year 1979 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** ninety per cent of the base price of greenhouse cucumbers for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** Subject to section 7, the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to or for the benefit of producers of $0.30 per dozen of greenhouse cucumbers.



**7** Where producers are carrying on business in a production unit as determined by the Board, the Board may make payments in respect of each producer in the production unit, but such payments shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum payable by the Board under section 6 to or for the benefit of three producers.


