> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/80/64.md)

# Granting of Certain Privileges and Immunities to the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization

**SOR/80-64**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 11 January 1980

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Secretary of State for External Affairs and with the concurrence of the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans and the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 3 of the Privileges and Immunities (International Organizations) Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Order respecting the granting of certain privileges and immunities to the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization.




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization Privileges and Immunities Order.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order,

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations; (*Convention*)

***Organization*** means the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization. (*Organisation*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**3** 

- **(1)** The Organization shall have in Canada the legal capacities of a body corporate and shall, to such extent as may be required for the performance of its functions, have the privileges and immunities set forth in Articles II and III of the Convention for the United Nations.

- **(2)** Representatives of states and governments that are members of the Organization shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the performance of their functions, the privileges and immunities set forth in Article IV of the Convention for representatives of members.

- **(3)** All officials of the Organization shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the performance of their functions, the privileges and immunities set forth in Article V of the Convention for officials of the United Nations.

- **(4)** All experts performing missions for the Organization shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the performance of their functions, the privileges and immunities set forth in Article VI of the Convention for experts on missions for the United Nations.

- **(5)** Nothing in this Order exempts a person who is a Canadian citizen residing or ordinarily resident in Canada from liability for any duties or taxed imposed by any law in Canada.


