> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/80/76.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of White Pea Beans Grown in Canada in 1978

**SOR/80-76**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 14 January 1980

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to section 2, paragraphs 8.2(1)(b) and 10(1)(b), and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of white pea beans grown in Canada in 1978.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the White Pea Bean Stabilization 1978 Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing white pea beans in Canada. (*producteur*)

***white pea beans*** means white Canada Eastern beans of the grades Extra No. 1 Canada Eastern, No. 1 Canada Eastern, No. 2 Canada Eastern, No. 3 Canada Eastern and No. 4 Canada Eastern as defined and set out in Schedule I to the [Canada Grain Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-10.md), grown in Canada in 1978 and sold on or before August 31, 1979; (*haricot rond blanc*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** White pea beans are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purpose of determining the prescribed price of white pea beans for the year 1978, the percentage of the base price of white pea beans for that year is hereby prescribed at ninety per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of white pea beans for the year 1978 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** ninety per cent of the base price of white pea beans for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** Subject to section 7, the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers, on a maximum of one hundred and sixty metric tonnes of white pea beans per producer, of $68.78 per metric tonne of white pea beans other than white pea beans used or to be used in foreign food aid programs.



**7** Where the producers are carrying on business in a production unit, as determined by the Board, the Board may make payments to each producer in the production unit, but such payments shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum payable by the Board under section 6 to three producers.


