> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/80/831.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Advertising, Sale and Importation of Glass Containers of a Capacity of 1.5 Litres or More Containing a Non-Alcoholic Carbonated Beverage

**SOR/80-831**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 30 October 1980

----------

Whereas the proposed Regulations substantially in the form set out in the schedule hereto, were published in the Canada Gazette Part I, on August 2, 1980 and a period of sixty days was thereby afforded to any interested person to make comments with respect thereto;

And Whereas all comments received within that period were considered.

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, pursuant to section 7 of the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the advertising, sale and importation of glass containers of a capacity of 1.5 litres or more containing a non-alcoholic carbonated beverage.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Carbonated Beverage Glass Containers Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations, ***product*** means a glass container for a non-alcoholic carbonated beverage, as set out in item 36 of Part II of Schedule I to the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md). (*produit*)
> SOR/91-257, s. 2.





## Authorization


**3** A product may be advertised, sold or imported into Canada if the requirements of sections 4 to 9 are met.
> SOR/91-257, s. 3(F).





## Labelling and Coding Requirements


**4** Every product shall have printed on it, or affixed to it, in such a manner that it remains clearly legible until its container is emptied, the following statement prominently displayed in boldface letters not less than 3 mm in height: “CONTENTS UNDER PRESSURE. HANDLE WITH CARE.*CONTENU SOUS PRESSION. MANIPULER AVEC SOIN.*”



**5** Every product shall be coded in such a manner that its date of manufacture is identifiable for its life.




## Performance Requirements


**6** Any product, when tested in accordance with the test procedure described in Schedule I, shall not project any piece or part that perforates the plastic sheets as described in section 9 of that Schedule.



**7** Any product, when tested in accordance with the test procedure described in Schedule II, shall retain 95 per cent or more of the dry weight of the container inside the cylinder as described in sections 7 to 9 of that Schedule.




## Quality Control Requirements


**8** Every manufacturer of a product in Canada or importer of a product into Canada shall
- **(a)** establish and maintain a system of control and inspection of the product that is adequate to ensure that the product meets the performance requirements set out in sections 6 and 7; and
- **(b)** prepare and maintain documents describing tests carried out on the product and the results of such tests.
> SOR/2012-71, s. 1.




**9** The manufacturer or importer shall keep the documents referred to in paragraph 8(b) for a period of two years, during which period the documents shall be available for examination by an inspector at all reasonable times.
> SOR/2012-71, s. 2.





### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(Section 6)**
## Drill Test
**1** As shown on the diagrams, provide for the test

**a)** a 10 cm diameter flat and horizontal support surface;



**b)** on a supporting structure of four corner posts 16 mm in diameter, four straight rods 16 mm in diameter, forming a square frame with outside dimensions of 80 cm centred on the vertical centreline through the support surface described in paragraph (a) and parallel to and with the upper edges of the rods 80 cm above the support surface;



**c)** a drill probe of adjustable height, with a horizontal axial centreline in a vertical plane that passes equidistant between two opposite sides of the square described in paragraph (b);



**d)** a sharp “MM Glazemaster Glass Drill, 4.5 mm, Type A”, affixed to and axially centred on the drill probe described in paragraph (c);



**e)** a drill probe drive mechanism capable of rotating the probe 0.2 revolutions per second while advancing the drill 0.254 mm per second towards the vertical centreline through the support surface described in paragraph (a); and



**f)** two support points of adjustable height, located and oriented as shown on the diagrams.



**2** Cover the top and the four vertical sides of the supporting structure using a clear polyethylene plastic sheet of a thickness of 0.035 ± 0.005 mm, and using supplementary means of attachment as required, so that

**a)** a single sheet of plastic, 80 cm wide, is suspended across the side facing the drill probe;



**b)** two sheets of plastic, each 33 cm wide, are suspended on the side opposite the side described in paragraph (a) with a gap of 14 cm between the two sheets, symmetrical with the drill probe centreline;



**c)** a single sheet of plastic, 80 cm wide, is suspended across the top and the other two sides;



**d)** the lower edges of the plastic sheets described in paragraphs (a) to (c) extend below the plane of the support surface described in paragraph 1(a); and



**e)** the lower edges of the plastic sheets described in paragraphs (a) to (c) are subjected to a uniformly distributed downward force of 39 N/m of width by the use of weight rods.



**3** Remove from the container any packaging and label that does not remain on the product throughout its sale and use.

**4** Ensure that the unopened container containing the carbonated beverage is equilibrated to a test temperature by storing it in a water bath at 22°C for four hours and is equilibrated as to pressure at that temperature by ultrasonic agitation immediately prior to the test.

**5** Ensure that the plastic sheets described in section 2 are free of any perforation.

**6** Adjust the drill probe and the support points described in section 1 to the mid-height of the container.

**7** Place the container upright and unopened on the support surface and against the support points.

**8** Adjust the probe drive mechanism to a linear velocity of 0.254 mm per second and a rotational velocity of 0.2 revolutions per second, and advance the probe until it ruptures the container.

**9** If the container shatters, note whether any piece or part of the container has perforated the plastic sheets above the horizontal plane of the support surface.

> Image: Illustration depicting specifications and measurements for a test apparatus for drill test. Top, front and side views. The test apparatus is a square frame, with a side length of 80 cm made of 4 corner posts 16 mm in diameter. A bottle is placed in the middle of the apparatus and the glass drill is positioned at a perpendicular angle. the drill is moved at a fixed speed towards the glass bottle until rupture. The apparatus is draped in plastic sheets.

> SOR/81-821, s. 1.




### **SCHEDULE II** 
**(Section 7)**
## Drop Test
**1** As shown on the diagrams, provide for the test

**a)** a block of concrete, 50 cm long, 40 cm wide and 20 cm high, having a smooth, flat and horizontal impact surface, positioned on a flat and horizontal concrete base;



**b)** a rigid cylinder, 2 m in inside diameter and 20 cm high, placed on the concrete base described in paragraph (a) so that it is concentric with the concrete block, and the upper edge of the cylinder is in the plane of the impact surface; and



**c)** a drop mechanism, consisting of two horizontal container support bars of 6 mm diameter with their centrelines 4 cm apart positioned symmetrically over the longitudinal centreline of the impact surface described in paragraph (a) and with their upper edges in the pre-release position 75 cm above the impact surface, capable of permitting a free fall of the container from its horizontal support position by a snap action withdrawal of the two support bars in symmetrical paths downward and away from the container while maintaining the bar centrelines horizontal.



**2** Remove from the container any packaging and label that does not remain on the product throughout its sale and use.

**3** Ensure that the unopened container containing the carbonated beverage is equilibrated to a test temperature by storing it in a water bath at 25°C for four hours and is equilibrated as to pressure at that temperature by ultrasonic agitation immediately prior to the test.

**4** Clear and clean the area inside and outside the rigid cylinder described in paragraph 1(b).

**5** Place the container horizontal and unopened, centred between and on the container support bars when they are in the pre-release position, with the vertical plane through the mid-height of the container passing through the transverse centreline of the impact surface described in paragraph 1(a).

**6** Activate the drop mechanism allowing the container to fall freely on the impact surface.

**7** If the container shatters, collect, and weigh after cleaning and drying all pieces and parts of the container, including the top and label, that have travelled beyond the inside diameter of the cylinder described in paragraph 1(b).

**8** Collect, and weigh after cleaning and drying all pieces and parts of the container, including the top and label, that have remained within the inside diameter of the cylinder described in paragraph 1(b).

**9** Obtain the dry weight of the container by adding the weights determined in sections 7 and 8.

> Image: Illustration depicting specifications and measurements a test apparatus for a drop test. Top and front views. The test apparatus consists of a rigid, thin-walled cylinder, 2 m in diameter and 20 cm high, lying flat on a horizontal surface. Inside this cylinder lies a block of concrete that is 50 cm long, 40 cm wide, 20 cm thick. Support bars which are positioned 75 cm above the block, and 4 cm apart support a bottle which is then dropped during the test.


