> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/2007/13.md)

# Softwood Lumber Products Charge on Duty Deposit Refunds Remission Order, No. 1

**SI/2007-13**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 7 February 2007

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, considering that it is in the public interest to do so, on the recommendation of the Minister of National Revenue and the Minister for International Trade, pursuant to subsection 23(2)<sup><a href='#fn_609295-E_hq_1494'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), hereby makes the annexed Softwood Lumber Products Charge on Duty Deposit Refunds Remission Order, No. 1.

<a name='fn_609295-E_hq_1494'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 7(2)<br />




**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Act*** means the Softwood Lumber Products Export Charge Act, 2006. (*Loi*)

***beneficiaries*** means the Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports, the binational industry council established pursuant to the softwood lumber agreement and the meritorious initiatives identified pursuant to Part A of Article XIII of that agreement. (*bénéficiaires*)

***duty deposit refund*** has the same meaning as in subsection 18(1) of the Act. (*remboursement*)

***softwood lumber agreement*** has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md). (*accord sur le bois d’œuvre*)

***specified person*** has the same meaning as in subsection 18(1) of the Act. (*intéressé*)




**Remission**

**2** Remission is hereby granted to a specified person of the charge paid or payable by the specified person under section 18 of the Act on the amount of a duty deposit refund and any interest paid or payable in respect of the charge if the person sells their rights to the duty deposit refund by agreement to Her Majesty in right of Canada and Her Majesty in right of Canada pays an amount to beneficiaries on behalf of the specified person under that agreement.


