> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/80/8.md)

# Certain Areas Covered With Water Proclaimed Public Harbours Effective January 1, 1980

**SI/80-8**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA SHIPPING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md)

Date registered: 9 January 1980

----------

ED SCHREYER

[L.S.]

Canada

ELIZABETH THE SECOND, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories QUEEN, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith.

To All To Whom these Presents shall come or whom the same may in anyway concern,

*Greeting:*



ROGER TASSÉ



*Deputy Attorney General*



A Proclamation

Whereas in and by section 590 of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), being chapter S-9 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1970, as amended, it is provided that the Governor in Council may, by proclamation, declare to be a public harbour any area covered with water within the jurisdiction of Our Parliament of Canada, and that such proclamation shall define the limits of the harbour so proclaimed;

And Whereas it is expedient and Our Privy Council for Canada has advised that, effective the first day of January in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and eighty, the areas set out in the schedule hereto be declared Public Harbours.

Now Know You that We, by and with the advice of Our Privy Council for Canada, do by this Our Proclamation declare, effective the first day of January in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and eighty, the areas set out in the schedule hereto to be public harbours, the limits of which shall be as defined in that Schedule.

Of All Which Our Loving Subjects and all others whom these Presents may concern are hereby required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.

In Testimony Whereof, We have caused these Our Letters to be made Patent and the Great Seal of Canada to be hereunto affixed. Witness: Our Right Trusty and Well-beloved Edward Richard Schreyer, Chancellor and Principal Companion of Our Order of Canada, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Military Merit upon whom We have conferred Our Canadian Forces’ Decoration, Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada.

At Our Government House, in Our City of Ottawa, this nineteenth day of December in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seventy-nine and in the twenty-eighth year of Our Reign.

By Command,



GEORGE POST



*Deputy Registrar General of Canada*






### **SCHEDULE** 

###### Lewisporte, Newfoundland

“All the waters of Burnt Bay and Lewisporte Harbour within the jurisdiction of Canada south of a line drawn from a point (Lat. 49° 17′ 42.5″ N., Long. 55° 00′ 51″ W.) in Jobs Cove on an azimuth of 086° (true) northwards of St. Michael’s Island, to the opposite shore. Chart Reference: No. 4599 (Bay of Exploits) First Edition, January 2, 1959.”



###### Marystown, Newfoundland

“All the waters of Mortier Bay within the jurisdiction of Canada north of a line drawn from Skiffsail Point (Lat. 47° 08′ 43.5″ N., Long. 55° 03′ 40.7″ W.) on an azimuth of 217° (true), to a point south of Blow Me Down on the opposite shore. Chart Reference: No. 4587 (Mortier Bay) New Edition, December 25, 1970.”



###### Stewart, British Columbia

“All the waters of the Portland Canal within the jurisdiction of Canada north of a line drawn from Glacier Point (Lat. 55° 49′ 08″ N., Long. 130° 06′ 38″ W.) on an azimuth of 172° (true) to Engineers Point on the opposite shore. Chart Reference: No. 3933 (Portland Canal and Observatory Inlet) New Edition, June 3, 1977.”



###### Nanticoke, Ontario

“All the waters of Lake Erie within the jurisdiction of Canada bounded by a line drawn due south from Peacock Point (Lat. 42° 47′ 27″ N., Long. 79° 58′ 58.5″ W.) along a distance of 3.3 nautical miles; thence due west to longitude 80° 10′ 00″ W., and thence to the shore. Chart Reference: No. 2110 (Long Point Bay) New Edition, December 19, 1975.”



