> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/2003/133.md)

# Camp Ipperwash Indian Settlement Remission Order, 2003

**SI/2003-133**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 2 July 2003

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, considering that it is in the public interest to do so, on the recommendation of the Minister of National Revenue, pursuant to subsection 23(2)<sup><a href='#fn_SI-2003-133_e_hq_5145'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), hereby makes the annexed Camp Ipperwash Indian Settlement Remission Order, 2003.

<a name='fn_SI-2003-133_e_hq_5145'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 7(2)<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***band*** has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the [Indian Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-5.md). (*bande*)

***Indian*** has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the [Indian Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-5.md). (*Indien*)

***Indian Settlement*** means the settlement named, and constituting the lands described, in the schedule. (*établissement indien*)

***reserve*** has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the [Indian Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-5.md). (*réserve*)




## Application


**2** This Order applies in respect of the Indian Settlement until lands constituting that Indian settlement are set apart as a reserve by an order of the Governor in Council.




**PART 1** 
## Income Tax



### Interpretation


**3** In this Part,
- **(a)** ***tax*** means a tax imposed under Part I, I.1 or I.2 of the [Income Tax Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(5th%20Supp.).md); and
- **(b)** all other words and expressions not otherwise defined in section 1 have the same meaning as in the [Income Tax Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(5th%20Supp.).md).




### Remission of Income Tax


**4** Remission is hereby granted to an Indian, or a band, with income situated on the Indian Settlement, in respect of each taxation year or fiscal period beginning during or after the calendar year 1985, of the amount, if any, by which
- **(a)** the taxes, interest and penalties paid or payable by the Indian or band, as the case may be, for the taxation year or fiscal period
exceed
- **(b)** the taxes, interest and penalties that would have been payable by that Indian or band for the taxation year or fiscal period if the Indian Settlement had been a reserve throughout that taxation year or fiscal period.




**PART 2** 
## Goods and Services Tax



### Interpretation


**5** In this Part,
- **(a)** ***tax*** means the goods and services tax imposed under subsection 165(1) of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md); and
- **(b)** all other words and expressions not otherwise defined in section 1 have the same meaning as in Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md).




### Remission of the Goods and Services Tax


**6** Subject to sections 7 and 8, remission is hereby granted to an Indian or a band that is the recipient of a taxable supply made on or delivered to the Indian Settlement on or after the day on which this Order comes into force in the case of an Indian, and January 1, 1991 in the case of a band, of the amount, if any, by which
- **(a)** the tax paid or payable by the recipient
exceeds
- **(b)** the tax that would have been payable by the recipient if the Indian Settlement had been a reserve at the time the supply was made or delivered.




### Conditions


**7** Remission granted to an Indian under section 6 is on condition that
- **(a)** the tax paid or payable has not otherwise been rebated, credited, refunded or remitted under Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md) or under the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md); and
- **(b)** in respect of tax paid, a written claim for the remission is made to the Minister of National Revenue within two years after the day on which the tax was paid.



**8** Remission granted to a band under section 6 is on condition that
- **(a)** the tax paid or payable has not otherwise been rebated, credited, refunded or remitted under Part IX of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md) or under the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md);
- **(b)** in respect of tax paid on or after January 1, 1991 but before the day on which this Order comes into force, a written claim for the remission is made to the Minister of National Revenue within two years after the day on which this Order comes into force; and
- **(c)** in respect of tax paid on or after the day on which this Order comes into force, a written claim for the remission is made to the Minister of National Revenue within two years after the day on which the tax was paid.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 1)**
<table>
<tr>
<th>Settlement</th>
<th>Legal Description of Settlement Lands</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Camp Ipperwash</td>
<td>Those lands in the Township of Bosanquet, County of Lambton, Province of Ontario, more particularly described as follows:

Part of Lots 1 and 2, all of Lots 3 to 7 inclusive, Concession A;



Part of Lots 1 and 2, all of Lots 3 to 8 inclusive, Concession B;



Part of Lots 1 and 2, all of Lots 3 to 8 inclusive, Concession C;



Part of Lots 1, 2 and 8, all of Lots 3 to 7 inclusive, Concession D.



All according to Registered Plan No. 23, and designated as Part 1 on a plan deposited in the Land Registry Office for the Registry Division of Lambton (No. 25) as Plan 25R-3072.

Save and except part of Lots 4, 5 and 6, Concession A, and road allowances, all according to Registered Plan No. 23, and designated as Part 5 on a plan deposited in the Land Registry Office for the Registry Division of Lambton (No. 25) as Plan 25R-3320.

</td>
</tr>
</table>


