> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/95/42.md)

# Order Assigning to the Minister of the Environment, the Administration of Certain Public Lands

**SI/95-42**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA WILDLIFE ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/W/W-9.md)

Date registered: 5 April 1995

----------

Whereas the Governor in Council is satisfied that the public lands described in the schedule hereto are required for wildlife research, conservation or interpretation;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of the Environment, pursuant to subsection 4(1)<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Canada Wildlife Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/W/W-9.md)<sup><a href='#fn_2e'>[**]</a></sup>, is pleased hereby to assign to the Minister of the Environment the administration of the public lands described in the schedule hereto.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 23, s. 7(1)<br />

<a name='fn_2e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 23, s. 2<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
PORTOBELLO CREEK NATIONAL WILDLIFE AREA

In the following description, MT plan numbers are of record with Public Works Canada, Real Estate Services, Halifax, N.S.



In the Province of New Brunswick;



In the County of Sunbury;



In the Parish of Maugerville;



the whole of Part No. 2 according to Plan MT-1318, registered under No. 79-77 in the Registry Office for the County of Sunbury and attached to a deed registered under No. 45062 in Book 144 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 3 according to Plan MT-1319, registered under No. 9-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46481 in Book 151 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 4 according to Plan MT-1320, registered under No. 6-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46450 in Book 151 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 5 according to Plan MT-1321, registered under No. 31-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46778 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 8 according to Plan MT-1324, registered under No. 38-88 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 65695 in Book 263 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 8A according to Plan MT-1325, registered under No. 80-88 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 66536 in Book 270 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 10 according to Plan MT-1327, registered under No. 24-77 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 44465 in Book 144 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 13 according to Plan MT-1330, registered under No. 81-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47277 in Book 155 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 15 according to Plan MT-1332, registered under No. 80-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47277 in Book 155 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 17 according to Plan MT-1335, registered under No. 75-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47248 in Book 155 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 23 according to Plan MT-1342, registered under No. 79-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47277 in Book 155 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 24 according to Plan MT-1343, registered under No. 12-79 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 48900 in Book 163 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 25 according to Plan MT-1345-A, registered under No. 84-88 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 66572 in Book 270 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 26 according to Plan MT-1346, registered under No. 49-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46941 in Book 154 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 27 according to Plan MT-1347, registered under No. 124-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47905 in Book 158 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 29 according to Plan MT-1349, registered under No. 18-88 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 65201 in Book 260 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 31 according to Plan MT-1351, registered under No. 4-88 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 64999 in Book 259 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 32 according to Plan MT-1352, registered under No. 32-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46778 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 33 according to Plan MT-1354, registered under No. 17-84 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 57324 in Book 206 in said office;



In the parishes of Sheffield and Maugerville;



the whole of Part No. 34 according to Plan MT-1355, registered under No. 5-88 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 64999 in Book 259 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 36 and Part No. 36A according to Plan MT-1357, registered under No. 36-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46880 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 38 according to Plan MT-1359, registered under No. 56-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47011 in Book 154 in said office;



In the Parish of Sheffield;



the whole of Part No. 39 according to Plan MT-1360, registered under No. 6-88 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 64999 in Book 259 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 41 according to Plan MT-1362, registered under No. 46-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46904 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 42 according to Plan MT-1363, registered under No. 28-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46741 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 44 according to Plan MT-1365, registered under No. 45-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46892 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 45 according to Plan MT-1366, registered under No. 13-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46540 in Book 152 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 46 according to Plan MT-1367, registered under No. 58-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47045 in Book 154 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 49 according to Plan MT-1370, registered under No. 59-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47045 in Book 154 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 54 according to Plan MT-1375A, registered under No. 28-81 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 52748 in Book 181 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 56 according to Plan MT-1377, registered under No. 21-77 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 44395 in Book 141 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 59 according to Plan MT-1380, registered under No. 110-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47715 in Book 157 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 60 according to Plan MT-1381, registered under No. 47-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46904 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 61 according to Plan MT-1382, registered under No. 38-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46881 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 62 and Part No. 66 according to Plan MT-1383, registered under No. 12-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46518 in Book 151 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 68A according to Plan MT-1386, registered under No. 78-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 47276 in Book 155 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 71 according to Plan MT-1389, registered under No. 37-78 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 46881 in Book 153 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 74 according to Plan MT-1392, registered under No. 32-79 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 49206 in Book 164 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 84 and Part No. 86 according to Plan MT-1402, registered under No. 25-79 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 49033 in Book 164 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 87 according to Plan MT-1405, registered under No. 28-79 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 49057 in Book 164 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 89 according to Plan MT-1407, registered under No. 9-79 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 48820 in Book 163 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 89A according to Plan MT-1404, registered under No. 13-82 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 54174 in Book 189 in said office;



the whole of Part No. 94 according to Plan MT-1412A, registered under No. 27-81 in said office and attached to a deed registered under No. 52747 in Book 181 in said office.




POINTE DE L’EST NATIONAL WILDLIFE AREA

All those parcels of land, in the County of Bonaventure, in the Municipality of Grosse-Île and described as follow:



Lots 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 18-1, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33 and 65-1 of the official renewed cadastre for Île Coffin, Registration Division of Île-de-la-Madeleine; part of Lot 19-1 of said cadastre described in the deed registered in the Registry Office for the Registration Division of Îles-de-la-Madeleine at Hâvre-Aubert as 14028 on January 21, 1977; part of Lot 20-1 of said cadastre described in the deed registered in said office as 14029 on January 21, 1977; part of Lot 21-1 of said cadastre described in the deed registered in said office as 12521 on November 7, 1975; part of Lot 22-1 of said cadastre described in the deed registered in said office as 12581 on November 24, 1975; part of Lot 23 of said cadastre described in the deed registered in said office as 13018 on April 12, 1976; and Lot 24 of said cadastre described in the deed registered in said office as 36488 on December 30, 1992;



Said parcels containing together about 746.1 hectares.




LAC SAINT-FRANÇOIS NATIONAL WILDLIFE AREA

All those parcels of land, in the County of Huntingdon, in the Township of Dundee, in the Broken Front Range and described under Firstly to Thirty-fifthly as follows:



Firstly, the whole of lots 25B and 26B and the part of lot 25A described in a deed between Hubert and Gérald Lalumière and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in the Office of the Registration Division of Huntingdon at Huntingdon as 74381 on February 15, 1971;



Secondly, those parts of lots 29A, 30A and 30B described in a deed between Claude Dupuis and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74382 on February 15, 1971;



Thirdly, that part of lot 33A described in a deed between Mrs. Yvonne Legault and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74389 on February 16, 1971;



Fourthly, those parts of lots 21A, 21B, 22A, 22B, 23A, 23B, 24A and 24B described in a deed between Kenneth Fraser and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74413 on February 24, 1971;



Fifthly, those parts of lots 19B and 20B described in a deed between Donald Fraser and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74417 on February 24, 1971;



Sixthly, that part of lot 25C described in a deed between Marius Bérubé and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74434 on March 11, 1971;



Seventhly, that part of lot 26C described in a deed between Léon Grondin and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74441 on March 19, 1971;



Eighthly, those parts of lots 25A and 26A described in a deed between Edgar Deschambault and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74445 on March 23, 1971;



Ninthly, those parts of lots 15A, 16A and 17A described in a deed between Eloi Haineault and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74450 on March 23, 1971;



Tenthly, those parts of lot 26C described in a deed between Jean J. Lavigne and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74454 on March 23, 1971;



Eleventhly, that part of lot 25C described in a deed between Miss Gilberte Langlois and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74456 on March 23, 1971;



Twelfthly, those parts of lots 19A and 20A described in a deed between Godefridus Joseph van den Nieuwenhof and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74519 on April 15, 1971;



Thirteenthly, that part of lot 25C described in a deed between Roger Marchand and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74556 on April 27, 1971;



Fourteenthly, those parts of lots 32A and 33A described in a deed between Mrs. Lucille Dupuis and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74736 on June 8, 1971;



Fifteenthly, those parts of lots 27 and 28A described in a deed between Miss Evelyn Hastwell and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74810 on June 25, 1971;



Sixteenthly, those parts of lots 30B, 30D, 31A, 31B and 31C described in a deed between D. Bhandari, Alan Howard Reynolds, Mrs. Ann McLaren and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74854 on July 7, 1971;



Seventeenthly, that part of lot 27 described in a deed between Réal St-Laurent and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74855 on July 7, 1971;



Eighteenthly, that part of lot 26C described in a deed between Martin Mayrand and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 74935 on July 21, 1971;



Nineteenthly, that part of lot 27 described in a deed between Paul Rioux and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75375 on November 8, 1971;



Twentiethly, that part of lot 27 described in a deed between Bruno Faucher and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75452 on November 25, 1971;



Twenty-firstly, that part of lot 26C described in a deed between Maurice Prévost and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75465 on November 30, 1971;



Twenty-secondly, the whole of lots 30C and 31D and those parts of lots 31A, 31B and 31C described in a deed between Donald J. Elliott and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75467 on November 30, 1971;



Twenty-thirdly, that part of lot 28A described in a deed between Mrs. Aurore Larocque and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75611 on January 13, 1972;



Twenty-fourthly, the whole of lots 8 and 9 described in a deed between Victor Quenneville and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75673 on February 7, 1972;



Twenty-fifthly, those parts of lots 27 and 28A described in a deed between Antoine Dumont and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75774 on March 7, 1972;



Twenty-sixthly, those parts of lots 25C, 26C, 27 and 28A described in a deed between the Municipal Corporation of the Township of Dundee and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75779 on March 7, 1972;



Twenty-seventhly, that part of lot 10 described in a deed between the Estate of Adélard J. Carrier (alias Carrière) and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75858 on April 5, 1972;



Twenty-eighthly, that part of lot 25C described in a deed between Mrs. Jeanne D’Arc Fortier and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 77754 on March 30, 1973;



Twenty-ninthly, that part of lot 24C described in a deed between Siméon Chabot and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 77938 on April 26, 1973;



Thirtiethly, that part of lot 26C described in a deed between Dr. J.J. Falardeau and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 79379 on October 24, 1973;



Thirty-firstly, those parts of lots 33A, 34B and 35A described in a deed between Mrs. Ida P. Saumier and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 79631 on November 22, 1973;



Thirty-secondly, the whole of lot 35r and those parts of lots 34b, 35a and 35q described in a deed between Mrs. Ida P. Saumier and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 87293 on April 29, 1977;



Thirty-thirdly, that part of lot 27 described in a deed between Dame Fay Zimlichman (also known as Zimmlichman) and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 99170 on April 8, 1983;



Thirty-fourthly, those parts of lots 26c, 27 and 28a described in a deed between Gigantic Land and Development Corporation and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 99169 on April 8, 1983;



Thirty-fifthly, that part of lot 16A described in a deed between Michel Haineault and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 112464 on October 12, 1989;



As well as those parcels of land, in the County of Huntingdon, in the Township of Dundee, in the range between Aux Saumons River, Pike Creek and Bittern Creek and described under Firstly and Secondly as follows:



Firstly, the whole of lots 4 and 6 described in a deed between Mrs. Lena Margaret Morris, Mrs. Gladys Calista Morris and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75688 on February 14, 1972;



Secondly, the whole of lots 2, 3 and 5 described in a deed between Donald Elliott and Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada, registered in said office as 75991 on May 1, 1972.




CAP TOURMENTE NATIONAL WILDLIFE AREA

All those parcels of land, in the parishes of Saint-Joachim and Saint-Tite, in the Registration Division of Montmorency and described under Firstly to Seventhly as follows:



Firstly, those two parcels of land lying within the Federal Crown Lands and being southwesterly of line OQ1 to OQ2 to 56 as shown on Plan 61025 recorded in the Canada Lands Surveys Records at Ottawa; said two parcels described under First and Second as follows:



First, that parcel containing parts of lots and lots P.1, P.2, 392 and a part of lot without cadastral designation as shown on Plan 61025 recorded in said records as well as parts of lots and lots P.1, P.2 (ferme du cap Tourmente), P.3 (ferme de la Friponne), P.4 (petite ferme), P.5 (ferme Chevalier) and 392 as shown on Plan 61024 recorded in said records as well as parts of lots and lots P.4 (petite ferme) and 392 as shown on Plan 61023 recorded in said records;



Second, that parcel containing parts of lots and lots P.71 (grande ferme), P.72 (ferme de la grande pièce), 73, 74, 75, 246, 248 and 391 as shown on Plan 61023 recorded in said records; except the Canadian National Railways and the Canadian Government Railways rights-of-way;



Secondly, parcels II and III of lot P.27, parcel II of lot P.28 lying southeasterly of lot 456, parcel III of lot P.28, parcels I and II of lot P.30, parcels I and II of lot P.31, parcels I and II of lot P.45 designated by number 9, parcels I and II of lot P.45 designated by number 10, parcel II of lot P.45 lying south of lot 456 and designated by number 8, parcels II and III of lot P.54, parcels I and II of lot P.56 designated by number 12, parcels I and II of lot P.56 designated by number 13, parcels II, III and IV of lot P.57 designated by number 14, parcels I and II of lot P.57 designated by number 15; as shown on Plan 61360 recorded in said records;



Thirdly, parts of lots and lots P.22, P.77, 78, P.247, P.249, 250, P.251, 252, P.253, 255 and P.256 as shown on Plan 65904 recorded in said records;



Fourthly, parts of lots and lots P.72 and P.85 as shown on Public Works Canada, Real Estate Services plan EM-89-7007 of March 21, 1989;



Fifthly, parcels I and II containing parts of lots 4 Ptie and 5 Ptie as shown on Public Works Canada, Real Estate Services plan BM-91-7302 of February 14, 1991;

said parcel II being contained within parcel I for right-of-way easement according to said plan BM-91-7302;





Sixthly, parcels I to V and parcel VIII containing parts of lots and lots 68 Ptie, 71 Ptie, 107 Ptie, 108 Ptie, 109 Ptie, 110 Ptie, 111 Ptie, 114 Ptie, 115 Ptie, 116 Ptie, 118 Ptie, 127 Ptie, 128 Ptie, 129 Ptie, 130 Ptie, 134 Ptie, 135 Ptie, 69-1, 70, 112, 113, 117, 119, 125, 126, 131 and an old road shown in its original state; as shown on Public Works Canada, Real Estate Services plan AM-92-7485 of February 23, 1992;

said parcel VIII being contained within parcel I for right-of-way easement according to said plan AM-92-7485;





Seventhly, parcels VI and VII containing lot 68 Ptie as shown on said plan AM-92-7485;

said parcel VI for hunting right easement according to said plan AM-92-7485;



said parcel VII being contained within parcel VI for right-of-way easement according to said plan AM-92-7485.






POINTE-AU-PÈRE NATIONAL WILDLIFE AREA

All those parts of original lots, in the Parish of Saint-Germain-de-Rimouski, numbers 25 to 30 inclusive on the plan and book of reference of the Cadastre of the Parish of Saint-Germain-de-Rimouski, Registration Division of Rimouski, more particularly described under Firstly and Secondly as follows:



Firstly, the following parts of lots and lots: part 25, part 26, parts 26-1 and 26-2, parts 27-1 and 27-2, part 28, part 29 and part 30 and the foreshores situated in front of original lots 25, 26, 27 and 28; as said parts of lots and lots are described in the deeds registered in the said registration division under numbers 244343, 246983, 245476, 245674, 244556, 244922, 244831, 244482, 244434 and 286929;



excepting from said part 27-2, that part of lot 27-2 ptie as shown on Public Works Canada, Real Estate Services plan DM-89-7051 of June 28, 1989;



Secondly, two parcels of land known and designated as parts of original lot number 27 (27 ptie) on said plan and book of reference of the said cadastre, and registration division; the first parcel as mentioned in Her Majesty’s title in right of Canada, registered in the said registration division on September 24, 1906 under number 36630, the second parcel as mentioned in Her Majesty’s title in right of Canada, registered in the said registration division on April 1st, 1913 under number 41456;



Said parts of lots and lots mentioned under Firstly being shown on Public Works Canada, Real Estate Services plans MM-84-5871 of February 7, 1984 and DM-89-7052 of June 28, 1989;



Said parcels mentioned under Secondly lying entirely within those parts of original lot number 27 being designated 27 Ptie on said plan MM-84-5871 and situated on the north side of Sainte-Anne River.




NIRJUTIQAVVIK NATIONAL WILDLIFE AREA

All latitudes and longitudes hereinafter described refer to the 1927 North American Datum; all topographic features hereinafter referred to being according to Edition 1 of the National Topographic Series Map 48H & 38G Lady Ann Strait and Edition 2 of the National Topographic Series Map 39B Clarence Head, produced at a scale of 1:250,000 by the Surveys and Mapping Branch, Department of Energy, Mines and Resources at Ottawa;



In the Northwest Territories;



At Coburg Island;



All that tract of land and land covered by water lying in the vicinity of Lady Ann Strait, more particularly described as follows:



All of the island known as Coburg Island, the centre of which having approximate latitude 75°57′50″ and approximate longitude 79°19′30″; and also all that land covered by water immediately adjacent to said Coburg Island and extending 10 km from the ordinary high-water mark thereof.





