> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/95/49.md)

# Order Transferring from the Minister of Industry to the Minister of Finance, the Powers, Duties and Functions under Certain Sections of the Act

**SI/95-49**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PUBLIC SERVICE REARRANGEMENT AND TRANSFER OF DUTIES ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-34.md)

Date registered: 19 April 1995

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Prime Minister, pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of the [Public Service Rearrangement and Transfer of Duties Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-34.md), is pleased hereby to transfer to the Minister of Finance the powers, duties and functions of the Minister of Industry under subsection 4(2) and sections 8 to 10, 13 to 15 and 17 to 21 of the [Department of Industry Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1995/c.%201.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SI-95-49_e_hq_6609'>[*]</a></sup> in relation to regional economic development in the Province of Quebec, except the agreements set out in the schedule hereto.

<a name='fn_SI-95-49_e_hq_6609'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1995, c. 46<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
**1** The Industrial Development Subsidiary Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Province of Quebec entered into on January 23, 1985, pursuant to Order in Council P.C. 1984-4193 of December 21, 1984, and amended as follows:

**(a)** Amendment No. 1 agreed to on November 4, 1985;



**(b)** Amendment No. 2 agreed to on April 29, 1986;



**(c)** Amendment No. 3 agreed to on April 29, 1986;



**(d)** Amendment No. 4 agreed to on January 26, 1987;



**(e)** Amendment No. 5 agreed to on March 15, 1988, pursuant to Order in Council P.C. 1987-2151 of October 15, 1987;



**(f)** Amendment No. 7 agreed to on March 23, 1990;



**(g)** Amendment No. 8 agreed to pursuant to Order in Council P.C. 1990-2/1049 of May 31, 1990;



**(h)** Amendment No. 9 agreed to on March 26, 1991;



**(i)** Amendment No. 10 agreed to on July 5, 1991;



**(j)** Amendment No. 11 agreed to on October 30, 1991;



**(k)** Amendment No. 12 agreed to on April 10, 1992; and



**(l)** Amendment No. 13 agreed to on April 30, 1993.




**2** The Industrial Development Subsidiary Agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government of the Province of Quebec entered into on March 27, 1992.



