> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/82/17.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Sour Cherries Marketed in 1980

**SOR/82-17**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 21 December 1981

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to sections 2, 8.2, 10 and 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of sour cherries marketed in 1980.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Sour Cherry Stabilization Regulations, 1980.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing sour cherries in Canada; (*producteur*)

***sour cherries*** means sour cherries grown in Canada in the calendar year 1980 and sold by a producer on or before December 31, 1980. (*cerises sures*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Sour cherries are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purposes of determining the prescribed price of sour cherries for the calendar year 1980, the percentage of the base price of sour cherries for that year is hereby prescribed to be 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of sour cherries for the calendar year 1980 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 90 per cent of the base price of sour cherries for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** The Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers of $0.0465 per lb. of sour cherries.


