> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/82/405.md)

# Order Designating Special Areas in the Province of Quebec and Ontario and Approving a Plan for the Areas

**SOR/82-405**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SPECIAL AREAS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-14.md)

Date registered: 13 April 1982

----------

Whereas the areas in the Province of Quebec and Ontario described in Schedule I to the Order annexed hereto are part of a region that requires, by reason of exceptional inadequacy of opportunities for productive employment of people of that region, special measures to facilitate economic expansion and social adjustment;

And Whereas the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion has, in accordance with sections 6 and 7 of the Department of Regional Economic Expansion Act, consulted with the governments of the Province of Quebec and Ontario regarding the designation of those areas as special areas and has, with the participation of persons, voluntary groups, agencies and bodies in those areas formulated a plan for the economic expansion and social adjustment of those areas.

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion and the Treasury Board, pursuant to sections 6 and 7 of the Department of Regional Economic Expansion Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Order Designating Special Areas in the Province of Quebec and Ontario and Approving a Plan for the Areas.




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Special Areas Industrial Renewal Order.




## Designation of Special Areas


**2** The areas described in Schedule I are designated as special areas for the period commencing April 8, 1982 and terminating March 31, 1986.
> SOR/84-276, s. 1.





## Approval of Plans for the Areas


**3** The plans set out in Schedule II for the economic expansion and social development of the areas designated by this Order are hereby approved.




### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(Section 2)**

## Special Area of Sherbrooke — Magog

In the census division of Sherbrooke, the census subdivisions of Sherbrooke, Lennoxville, Rock Forest, Deauville, Fleurimont and Saint-Elie d’Orford;


In the census division of Stanstead, the census subdivisions of Magog, Omerville and the northeast portion of the Township of Magog.



## Special Area of Drummondville

In the census division of Drummond, the census subdivisions of Drummondville, Drummondville-Sud, Grantham-Ouest, Saint-Germain-de-Grantham (village), Saint-Germain-de-Grantham (municipality), Saint-Nicéphore and Wickham.



## Special Area of Trois-Rivières — Shawinigan

In the census division of Saint-Maurice, the census subdivisions, of Pointe-du-Lac, Trois-Rivières-Ouest, Trois-Rivières, Shawinigan, Baie-de-Shawinigan;


In the census division of Champlain, the census subdivisions of Cap-de-la-Madeleine, Saint-Louis-de-France, Sainte-Marthe-du-Cap-de-la-Madeleine, Notre-Dame-du-Mont-Carmel, Shawinigan-Sud, Saint-Théophile, Saint-Georges and Grand-Mère.



## Special Area of Valleyfield

In the census division of Beauharnois, the census subdivisions of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield and Grande-Île;


In the census division of Soulanges, the census subdivisions of Coteau-du-Lac, Coteau-Landing, La Station-du-Coteau and Saint-Ignace-du-Coteau-du-Lac.



## Special Area of Victoriaville — Plessisville

In the census division of Arthabaska, the census subdivisions of Sainte-Victoire-d’Arthabaska, Victoriaville, Arthabaska, Princeville (town) and Princeville (municipality).


In the census division of Mégantic, the census subdivisions of Plessisville (town) and Plessisville (municipality).



## Special Area of Cornwall

In the census division of Stormont, the census subdivision of Cornwall (city) and Cornwall (township municipality).



## Special Area of Hawkesbury

In the census division of Prescott, the census subdivisions of Hawkesbury, Vankleek Hill, L’Orignal, West Hawkesbury and Longueuil.



## Census Boundaries

The said census boundaries are as set out on Census Divisions and Subdivisions Maps G81-10 Quebec No. 1 and Ontario No. 1 of Statistics Canada.





### **SCHEDULE II** 
**(Section 3)**
The plan provides for the granting of assistance authorized under the [Canadian Industrial Renewal Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/81/850.md) and the [Industrial and Regional Development Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/83/599.md) to the special areas designated by this Order.


> SOR/84-276, s. 2.


