> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/82/494.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Sheep Marketed in the Year Ending December 31, 1981

**SOR/82-494**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 13 May 1982

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture, pursuant to sections 2, 8.2, 10 and 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of sheep marketed in the year ending December 31, 1981.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Sheep Stabilization 1981 Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada who raises sheep for marketing for slaughter, on his own behalf or under contract; (*producteur*)

***sheep*** means
- **(a)** a lamb carcass, as defined in the Lamb and Mutton Carcasses Grading Regulations, that weighs 28.35 kg or less,
- **(b)** a lamb of live weight and of a grade equivalent to the lamb carcass referred to in paragraph (a), and
- **(c)** new crop lamb sold for slaughter during 1981. (*mouton*)




## Prescribed Price


**3** The prescribed price for sheep for the year ending December 31, 1981 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 90 per cent of the base price thereof; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**4** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 5, the Board may, pursuant to paragraphs 10(1)(b) and (c) of the Act, make payments to producers in the amount of $5.14 per sheep on a maximum total of 5,000 sheep per producer.

- **(2)** Where any provincial scheme for income assurance or stabilization of sheep prices or sheep production exists, the payment referred to in subsection (1) shall be reduced by the net amount per sheep payable pursuant to the provincial scheme.



**5** Where producers are carrying on a business in a production unit, as determined by the Board, the Board may make payments to that production unit in respect of each producer in the production unit, but such payments shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum payable by the Board under section 4 to three producers.



**6** Payments made pursuant to section 4 shall be based on
- **(a)** proof of sale for slaughter;
- **(b)** sheep carcass grading certificates signed by inspectors under the Agricultural Products Standards Act; or
- **(c)** other equivalent evidence satisfactory to the Board.


