> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/61/378.md)

# Agassiz Correctional Camp, Petawawa Correctional Camp and Gatineau Correctional Camp Lands Proclaimed Penitentiaries

**SOR/61-378**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CORRECTIONS AND CONDITIONAL RELEASE ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1992/c.%2020.md)

----------


<p>P. KERWIN,<br />*Administrator*.<br />[L.S.]<br /></p>

CANADA

ELIZABETH THE SECOND, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories QUEEN, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith.

TO ALL TO WHOM these Presents shall come or whom the same may in anywise concern, GREETINGS:

A PROCLAMATION


<p>DONALD S. MAXWELL,<br />*Acting Deputy Attorney General*,<br />Canada.<br /></p>

WHEREAS in and by section twenty-two of the Penitentiary Act, chapter 206 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1952, it is among other things enacted that Our Governor in Council may declare from time to time by proclamation to be published in the Canada Gazette that any tract of land within Canada of which the boundaries shall be described in such proclamation is a penitentiary and is to be so held within the meaning of the said Act.

AND WHEREAS Our Administrator in Council by Order bearing date the thirty-first day of July, in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one, has directed that a proclamation do issue declaring the lands described in Schedules “A”, “B” and “C” hereto to be penitentiary lands within the meaning of the Penitentiary Act.

NOW KNOW YE that, by and with the advice of Our Privy Council for Canada, We do hereby proclaim and declare that from and after the date hereof the lands described in Schedules “A”, “B” and “C” hereto shall henceforth be penitentiaries to be known as Agassiz Correctional Camp, Petawawa Correctional Camp and Gatineau Correctional Camp respectively.

OF ALL WHICH Our Loving Subjects and all others whom these Presents may concern are hereby required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF We have caused these Our Letters to be made Patent and the Great Seal of Canada to be hereto affixed. WITNESS: The Honourable PATRICK KERWIN, Chief Justice of Canada and Administrator of Our Government of Canada.

AT OTTAWA, this twenty-second day of August in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and in the tenth year of Our Reign.

By Command,
<p>C. STEIN,<br />*Under Secretary of State*.<br /></p>




### **SCHEDULE “A”** 
## Field Farm — Dominion Experimental Farm at Agassiz, B.C. Township No. 3, Range No. 28
That parcel or tract of land designated as Field 13, Farm No. 2, being part of the Dominion Experimental Farm at Agassiz, situated and being in Township No. 3, Range No. 28, West of the 6th Meridian in the Province of British Columbia, being more particularly described as follows:

Bounded on the East, North and West by the bank of the ditch separating Fields 12, 3 and 2 from Field 13; on the South by bush edge, the said bush edge being the southern extremity of Field 13 as cleared.



The above parcel contains 5.48 acres, more or less.







### **SCHEDULE “B”** 
## Camp Petawawa Reserve — Township of Petawawa — County of Renfrew
That parcel or tract of land being a part of the Camp Petawawa Reserve in the Township of Petawawa, County of Renfrew, in the Province of Ontario, being more particularly described as follows:

Commencing at a point along the fence line being the Easterly limit of the Canadian Pacific Railway right of way, the said point being 31.4 feet at right angles to the fence line to a cross cut in the floor of the concrete bridge spanning Little Tucker Creek; thence Southerly parallel to the railway track, a distance of 1253 feet more or less to a point; thence Westerly at an angle of 83°0′ a distance of 1200 feet more or less to a point; thence Northwesterly at an angle of 142°30′ a distance of 340 feet more or less; thence Westerly at an angle of 125°30′ a distance of 300 feet more or less to a point along the Easterly bank of Little Tucker Creek; thence in a Northeasterly direction following the sinuosities of the Easterly bank of Little Tucker Creek to the point of commencement.



The above parcel contains 32.75 acres, more or less.







### **SCHEDULE “C”** 
## Gatineau Park — Township of Onslow — County of Pontiac
That parcel or tract of land and the whole of Lac Leblanc contained therein, the said parcel being a part of the Gatineau Park site situated and being in the Township of Onslow, County of Pontiac, Province of Quebec, and comprising the South Half of Lots No. 27 and No. 28 in Range No. 10, being more particularly described as follows:

Bounded on the North by property presently controlled by the Province of Quebec, Department of Lands and Forests (North half of Lot No. 27) and privately owned property (North half of Lot No. 28); on the West by the westerly limit of Lot No. 27; on the South by the southerly limit of Range No. 10; on the East by the Easterly limit of Lot No. 28.



The above described parcel contains 200 acres, more or less.





