> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/86/262.md)

# Regulations Respecting Insurance of Loans Made to Baie Verte Mines Inc.

**SOR/86-262**

Enabling authorities: 
- APPROPRIATION ACT NO. 1, 1980-81

- APPROPRIATION ACT NO. 4, 1981-82

- [APPROPRIATION ACTS](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/Z/Z-01.md)

Date registered: 27 February 1986

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion and the Treasury Board, pursuant to Industry, Trade and Commerce Vote 1a of Appropriation Act No. 1, 1980-81<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup>, as extended by Industry, Trade and Commerce Vote 1e of Appropriation Act No. 4, 1981-82<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[**]</a></sup>, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting insurance of loans made to Baie Verte Mines Inc.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup> *</sup></a>: S.C. 1980-81-82-83, c. 3<br />

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1980-81-82-83, c. 90<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Baie Verte Mines Inc. Regulations, 1985.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Baie Verte Mines Inc.*** means a company incorporated with that name under the laws of the Province of Ontario and having its principal place of business at Baie Verte, Newfoundland; (*Baie Verte Mines Inc.*)

***Minister*** means the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion; (*ministre*)

***private lender*** means any lender, or its assignee, other than
- **(a)** the Government of Canada,
- **(b)** the government of any province of Canada,
- **(c)** an agency of any government referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) or any company that is effectively controlled by any such government or any agency thereof, or
- **(d)** any municipal corporation. (*prêteur privé*)




## Insurance


**3** Subject to sections 5 to 9, the Minister may provide insurance for the full amount of any loss up to one million dollars in the aggregate that may result in respect of loans made by a private lender to Baie Verte Mines Inc.




## Application for Insurance


**4** An application for insurance referred to in section 3 shall be made to the Minister and shall contain such information and documents relating to the application as the Minister may require.




## Terms and Conditions


**5** No loans made by a private lender to Baie Verte Mines Inc. may be insured under these Regulations unless
- **(a)** the loan is for revolving credit advances for working capital purposes not exceeding four million dollars; and
- **(b)** the loan is secured by the inventory or accounts receivable or both the inventory and accounts receivable of Baie Verte Mines Inc.



**6** The insurance provided by the Minister to a private lender shall cease on March 1, 1987.



**7** The amount of insurance provided by the Minister to a private lender may be reduced at the request of the private lender.



**8** A private lender shall pay to the Minister by semi-annual payments in advance a premium of one per cent of the amount of insurance in force.



**9** Where a private lender has demanded repayment of a loan insured under these Regulations the amount payable by the Minister shall not exceed the lesser of
- **(a)** the amount of insurance in force on the date of demand; and
- **(b)** 100 per cent of the loss incurred by the private lender.


