> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/86/872.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Submission of Samples of Fabrics for Importation

**SOR/86-872**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CUSTOMS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md)

Date registered: 14 August 1986

----------

Whereas, pursuant to subsection 164(3) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), a copy of proposed Regulations, substantially in the form annexed hereto, was published in Part I of the Canada Gazette on March 22, 1986 and a reasonable opportunity was thereby afforded to interested persons to make representations with respect thereto to the Minister of National Revenue.

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of National Revenue, pursuant to paragraph 164(1)(d) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-86-872_e_hq_6389'>[*]</a></sup>, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the submission of samples of fabrics for importation, effective on the coming into force of paragraph 164(1)(d) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md).

<a name='fn_SOR-86-872_e_hq_6389'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1986, c. 1<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Submission of Samples of Fabrics for Importation Regulations.




## Application


**2** These Regulations do not apply in respect of the imported fabrics listed in the schedule.




## Sample


**3** Every person importing fabrics into Canada shall ensure that there is attached to the accounting document required pursuant to subsection 32(1) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md) a sample of every quality or style of the imported fabrics.



**4** A sample of fabric referred to in section 3 must be of a size sufficient to identify the design or pattern, if any, woven into or imprinted on the fabric and must be at least 10 × 10 cm.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
**1** Fabrics imported by individuals for their personal use and not for resale.


**2** Samples of fabrics imported in lengths not exceeding 23 m.


**3** Fabrics imported in lengths not exceeding 2 m.


**4** Fabrics imported by custom tailors in lengths not exceeding 23 m.


**5** Fabrics valued at at least $4.38 per m and imported in lengths not exceeding 32 m.


**6** Long pile fabrics.


**7** Terry fabrics.


**8** Chenille or tufted fabrics.


**9** Felts other than those used for clothing.


**10** Tire cord fabrics.


**11** Lace and embroidered fabric.


**12** Fabrics classified under tariff item No. 5911.20.90 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**13** Fabrics solely of jute or hemp.


**14** Fabrics containing asbestos.


**15** Floor coverings.


**16** Oilcloth.


**17** Fabrics coated with asphalt or tar.


**18** Coated fabrics, other than the fabrics referred to in item 17, or impregnated fabrics if the weight of the coating or impregnation is in excess of 50 per cent of the weight of the finished fabric.


**19** Sensitized fabrics for photographic use.


> SOR/88-85, s. 1; SOR/98-53, s. 1.


