> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/86/972.md)

# By-law Respecting the General Administration of the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission (Ontario)

**SOR/86-972**

Enabling authorities: 
- [HARBOUR COMMISSIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-1.md)

Date registered: 11 September 1986

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 13<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Harbour Commissions Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-1.md), is pleased hereby to approve the annexed By-law respecting the general administration of the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission made by the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission on March 11, 1986 and served upon the Clerk of the City of Thunder Bay on March 18, 1986.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1980-81-82-83, c. 121, s. 25<br />




## Short Title


**1** This by-law may be cited as the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission Administrative By-law.
> SOR/94-698, s. 2(F).





## Interpretation


**2** In this By-law,

***Commission*** means the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission; (*Commission*)

***commissioner*** means a member of the Commission. (*commissaire*)
> SOR/94-698, s. 2(F).





## Composition of the Commission


**3** The Chairman shall preside at meetings of the Commission.



**4** The commissioners shall elect one of their numbers as vice-chairman.



**5** 

- **(1)** The chairman and vice-chairman shall hold office for a term not exceeding two years.

- **(2)** The chairman and vice-chairman are eligible to be re-elected in the same or another capacity.



**6** In the event of the absence or incapacity of the chairman or if the office of chairman is vacant, the vice-chairman has all the duties, and may exercise all the powers, of the chairman during the absence, incapacity or vacancy.



**7** In the event of the absence or incapacity of the chairman and vice-chairman or if those offices are vacant, a commissioner appointed by the Commission has all the duties, and may exercise all the powers of the chairman during the absence, incapacity or vacancy.



**8** The chairman may vote on any question of which the Commission is seized but he does not have a casting vote.



**9** Where the chairman or vice-chairman ceases to be a commissioner, he ceases to hold office.



**10** Where the chairman or vice-chairman resigns, the resignation becomes effective in accordance with the written terms of the resignation on its acceptance by a resolution of the Commission.



**11** The Commission may appoint a secretary and a harbour master.




## Meetings


**12** Meetings of the Commission and of committees of the Commission shall be held at such times and frequency as the Commission or committee determines by resolution.



**13** Notwithstanding section 12, the Commission shall hold at least 12 meetings each year.



**14** A meeting of the Commission or a committee of the Commission may be called by the chairman or by any three commissioners if every commissioner is given at least 24 hours notice of the meeting and the purpose of the meeting is set out in the notice.



**15** A meeting of the Commission or a committee of the Commission may be held at any time without notice if all the commissioners are present or if those absent have waived notice of the meeting.



**16** The conduct of all meetings of the Commission or a committee of the Commission shall be governed by the general procedure set out in Robert’s Rules of Order by H. M. Robert published in 1978.




## Execution of Instruments
> [SOR/92-88, s. 1(F)]



**17** 

- **(1)** Conveyances, leases, deeds, mortgages, licences, indentures, debentures and other instruments of a like nature shall be executed by the chairman or a commissioner and countersigned by the port manager or the secretary.

- **(2)** Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commission may direct the manner in which and the person by whom a conveyance, lease, deed, mortgage, licence, indenture, debenture or other instrument of a like nature shall be executed.
> SOR/92-88, s. 2.




**18** Cheques, drafts, other bills of exchange and any other instrument not referred to in section 17 shall be signed by such commissioner, employee or officer of the Commission as may be authorized by a resolution of the Commission.



**19** Where a person is authorized to execute an instrument, he may affix the corporate seal to the document.



**20** The signature of a person authorized to sign a cheque, draft or other bill of exchange may be reproduced by mechanical, electronic or other means.


