> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/86/974.md)

# By-Law Respecting a Tariff on Vessels and Goods for the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission (Ontario)

**SOR/86-974**

Enabling authorities: 
- [HARBOUR COMMISSIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-1.md)

Date registered: 11 September 1986

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 13<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-86-974_e_hq_6780'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Harbour Commissions Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-1.md), is pleased hereby to approve the annexed By-law respecting a tariff of rates in Thunder Bay Harbour on vessels and goods made by the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission on March 11, 1986 and served upon the Clerk of the City of Thunder Bay on March 18, 1986.

<a name='fn_SOR-86-974_e_hq_6780'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1980-81-82-83, c. 121, s. 25<br />




## Short Title


**1** This By-law may be cited as the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission Tariff By-law.
> SOR/94-698, s. 2.





## Rates


**2** The rates set out in the schedule to this By-law are payable to the Thunder Bay Harbour Commission at its office in Thunder Bay forthwith on receipt of the account.
> SOR/94-698, s. 2(F).




**3** The rates imposed by this By-law on a vessel shall be paid by the master or person in charge of the vessel, without prejudice to any recourse he may have by law against any other person for the recovery of the amount so paid, but the Commission may demand and recover the rates from the owners, or agents of the vessel.
> SOR/94-698, s. 2(F).





## Penalties
> [SOR/94-377, s. 1(F)]



**4** The punishment that may be imposed on summary conviction for contravention of this By-law is a fine not exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or both.
> SOR/89-423, s. 1; SOR/94-698, s. 2(F).





### **SCHEDULE** 

**PART I** 
## Rates on Vessels

**1** For each time a vessel comes into the Port of Thunder Bay, a rate of $0.0315 per gross registered tonne is payable.



**PART II** 
## Rates on Goods

**2** The rate set out in Column III of an item of the table to this Part is payable on the goods set out in Column I of that item on the basis of the unit set out in Column II of that item where the goods are landed from or shipped on board vessels coming into or using the harbour of the Port of Thunder Bay, or trans-shipped by water within the harbour.
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Goods</th>
<th>Unit</th>
<th>Rate</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Grain and grain products</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** In bulk — handled at or through grain elevators and bulk terminals

</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>$0.0546</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** In bags, sacks or packages, including seeds

</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Coal — in bulk</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.0546</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Iron ore and pellets — in bulk</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.0546</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Potash — in bulk</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.0546</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Dry bulk products not listed elsewhere in this table</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.1367</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Paper and paper products, including pulp</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.15</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Lumber and lumber products, including poles, piling, ties, plywood, hardboards, veneers</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.15</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Basic and primary metal products, crated or uncrated, including pipe</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.2496</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Food and food products in cartons or cases</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.2496</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Containerized goods, whether or not they are listed elsewhere in this table, including goods in highway trailers (unit measurement includes the container and the contents)</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.2496</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Vehicles and equipment, including passenger automobiles, trucks, buses, campers, trailers, mobile homes, mobile equipment and machinery and all other vehicles drawn, propelled or driven by any kind of power</td>
<td>Unit</td>
<td>7.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Petroleum and petroleum products</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(a)** In bulk

</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.1367</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** In packages and cases

</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Liquid products — in bulk</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.1367</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Alcoholic beverages</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>4.13</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Dangerous goods, including explosives</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>4.13</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Goods not otherwise specified</td>
<td>Tonne</td>
<td>0.2496</td>
</tr>
</table>



> SOR/89-423, s. 2; SOR/94-377, ss. 2(E), 3(F), 4(F); SOR/95-372, s. 12; SOR/96-438, s. 1(F).


