> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2011/17.md)

# Toys Regulations

**SOR/2011-17**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 4 February 2011

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Toys Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***plush toy*** means a toy with a raised fibre surface that is intended for use by a child in play. 

***soft toy*** includes a toy that is stuffed or made of pliable rubber or pliable plastic and that is intended for use by a child in play. 

***toy*** means a product that is intended for use by a child in learning or play. 




## Application



**Scope**

**2** These Regulations apply to the importation, advertising and sale of toys.




## General



**Official languages**

**3** Any written statement or warning required by these Regulations must appear in both English and French.




## Packaging



**Flexible film bags**

**4** A flexible film bag that packages a toy must meet at least one of the following requirements:
- **(a)** it must have an opening of less than 356 mm (14 inches) in circumference; or
- **(b)** it must be made from film that is at least 0.019 mm (0.75 mil) thick and must have the following warning or equivalent printed legibly on it in both official languages:“PLASTIC BAGS CAN BE DANGEROUS. TO AVOID DANGER OF SUFFOCATION, KEEP THIS BAG AWAY FROM BABIES AND CHILDREN.

*LES SACS DE PLASTIQUE PEUVENT ÊTRE DANGEREUX. POUR ÉVITER LE DANGER DE SUFFOCATION, NE LAISSEZ PAS CE SAC À LA PORTÉE DES BÉBÉS NI DES ENFANTS*.”






## Electrical Hazards



**Electrically operated toys**

**5** A toy that is operated electrically must meet the requirements of Canadian Standards Association Standard C22.2 No. 149-1972, entitled Electrically Operated Toys, published in English in November 1972 and in French in December 1976.




**Electrically heated toys**

**6** A toy that is an electrically operated wood-burning tool must meet the requirements of Canadian Standards Association Standard C22.2 No. 122-M1989, entitled Hand-Held Electrically Heated Tools, published in English in September 1989 and in French in May 1990.




## Mechanical Hazards



**Small parts**

**7** 

- **(1)** A toy that is or is likely to be used by a child of less than three years of age must not contain a part or component that is meant to be separable or may become separated with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy and that can be totally enclosed in the small parts cylinder illustrated in Schedule 1.

**Exception — soft textile fibre material**

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply to parts or components that are constructed entirely of soft textile fibre material.
> SOR/2012-71, s. 8(F).





**Metal edges**

**8** A toy’s exposed metal edges must be folded back or sprayed with or dipped in paint or otherwise treated so that all sharpness and burrs are eliminated.




**Wire frames**

**9** A wire frame or structure that is embedded in a toy must have its wire ends covered, turned in or turned back so that no sharp ends become exposed with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy.




**Plastic edges**

**10** A part of a toy that is made of plastic and that could, when broken, have exposed sharp edges must meet at least one of the following requirements:
- **(a)** it must be sufficiently thick to resist breakage with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy; or
- **(b)** it must be made of inherently tough materials, if the part is necessarily thin because of the toy’s function.




**Wood**

**11** A toy’s exposed wooden surfaces, edges and corners must be smoothly finished.




**Glass**

**12** A toy’s glass edges and corners must be smoothly finished.




**Fasteners**

**13** 

- **(1)** A fastener that is used in the construction of a toy must not, because of its type, size or manner of use, cause personal injury with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy.

**Further requirements**

- **(2)** The following fasteners must meet the following requirements:
	- **(a)** nails and staples must be properly attached;
	- **(b)** flat head or oval-head wood screws of the countersunk-head type must be properly countersunk;
	- **(c)** wood screws must be free of exposed burrs;
	- **(d)** fasteners for use in upholstery or similar fasteners must be properly attached and of a type that, if exposed, would not be a hazard; and
	- **(e)** threaded bolts must be protected by acorn or similar nuts or protective caps, unless the bolts are so placed that they protrude into a protected area where contact with the threaded ends is not likely to occur.
> SOR/2012-71, s. 9(F).





**Safety stops or locking devices**

**14** A toy’s folding mechanism, bracket or bracing must have a safety stop or a locking device to prevent the toy’s unintentional collapse.




**Spring-wound driving mechanisms**

**15** A spring-wound driving mechanism that is an integral part of a toy — other than a construction set — and that could injure a child’s finger must meet all of the following requirements:
- **(a)** its moving parts must be enclosed so that they cannot be touched with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy;
- **(b)** its outer case must be able to withstand reasonable abuse if damage to the case would cause the mechanism to be exposed;
- **(c)** in the case of a toy with a non-detachable winding key, the key must be of a shape and size that does not allow a child’s finger to become caught in it; and
- **(d)** in the case of a toy with a detachable key or starting handle, the clearance space between the detachable key or starting handle, when it is in place, and the rest of the toy must be less than 2 mm (1/16 inch) or more than 10 mm (3/8 inch).




**Projectile components**

**16** The projectile component of a toy — other than a rocketry component — that is capable of causing a puncture wound must have a rubber tip or other durable fitting placed on its leading end that is able to withstand a pulling force of 44.5 N (10 pounds).




**Enclosures**

**17** A toy with both of the following characteristics must have holes of sufficient size and number in each of two or more adjacent sides to prevent the suffocation of a child that is enclosed in the toy:
- **(a)** it is large enough for a child to enter or be placed inside; and
- **(b)** it has an opening that can be closed by a lid or door.




**Stability**

**18** A stationary toy that is intended to bear the weight of a child must stand level and firm when it is used.




## Auditory Hazards



**Decibel limit**

**19** A toy must not make or emit noise of more than 100 dB when measured at the distance that the toy would ordinarily be from the ear of the child who is using it.




## Thermal and Flammability Hazards



**Heated surfaces, parts or substances**

**20** A toy that has a surface or part, or that contains a substance, that may become heated with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy must meet the thermal and labelling requirements that are applicable to it as set out in Canadian Standards Association Standard C22.2 No. 149-1972, entitled Electrically Operated Toys, published in English in November 1972 and in French in December 1976.




**Celluloid or cellulose nitrate**

**21** A toy, other than a ping-pong ball, must not be made of or impregnated with celluloid or cellulose nitrate.




## Toxicological Hazards



**Specific toxic substances**

**22** A toy must not contain any of the following substances if they could, under reasonably foreseeable circumstances, become accessible to a child or, if they are used as a filling, could be released on breakage or leakage:
- **(a)** carbon tetrachloride or any substance that contains it;
- **(b)** methyl alcohol or any substance that contains more than 1% weight to volume of methyl alcohol;
- **(c)** petroleum distillates or any substance that contains more than 10% weight to volume of petroleum distillates;
- **(d)** benzene;
- **(e)** turpentine or any substance that contains more than 10% weight to volume of turpentine;
- **(f)** boric acid or salts of boric acid; or
- **(g)** ethyl ether.




**Specific substances in surface coatings**

**23** The surface coating material that is applied to a toy must not contain any of the following substances:
- **(a)** more than 90 mg/kg of total lead;
- **(b)** a compound of antimony, arsenic, cadmium, selenium or barium introduced as such if more than 0.1% of the compound dissolves in 5% hydrochloric acid after being stirred for 10 minutes at 20°C (68°F); or
- **(c)** a compound of mercury introduced as such.




**Organic solvents — balloon-blowing kits**

**24** A toy that a child uses to blow balloons must not contain any aromatic, aliphatic or other organic solvent if the solvent or any vapour coming from the solvent may be released directly into the mouth during or as a result of the normal use of the toy.
> SOR/2012-71, s. 10(E).





**General requirements**

**25** If a toy contains a toxic substance, at least one of the following requirements must be met:
- **(a)** the substance must not be capable of being ingested, inhaled or absorbed through the skin because of the nature, physical form, size or any other characteristic of the toy;
- **(b)** the total quantity of the available substance must not be more than 1% of the acute oral median lethal dose or acute dermal median lethal dose, whichever is the lesser, calculated for a child that has a body weight of 10 kg (22 pounds); or
- **(c)** the toxicity of the substance must not exceed the limits set out in Schedule 2.




**Corrosive substances, irritants or sensitizers**

**26** If a toy contains a corrosive substance, irritant or sensitizer, at least one of the following requirements must be met:
- **(a)** the corrosive substance, irritant or sensitizer must not be capable of coming in contact with the skin because of the nature or any characteristic of the toy; or
- **(b)** the corrosive substance must not be excessively corrosive, the irritant must not be excessively irritant and the sensitizer must not be excessively strong, when tested in accordance with Schedule 3.




**Substances in plastic materials**

**27** 

- **(1)** The grade, quality, quantity and proportion of a substance — including a resin, plasticizer, antioxidant, dye, or pigment — that is used to manufacture plastic material that is contained in or constitutes a toy that is or is likely to be used by a child of less than three years of age must be those considered acceptable for use in the manufacture of food packaging materials and food containers.

**Exception**

- **(2)** Such a substance may be used to manufacture the plastic material in an amount of 1% or less if the substance meets the requirements of sections 25 and 26.

**Prohibition**

- **(3)** The following substances must not be used to manufacture the plastic material:
	- **(a)** a heavy metal;
	- **(b)** a compound of a heavy metal;
	- **(c)** a substance set out in section 22 or 23; or
	- **(d)** a phthalate within the meaning of the [Phthalates Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2016/188.md).
> SOR/2012-71, s. 11(F).





## Specific Products



### Dolls, Plush Toys and Soft Toys



**Fastenings**

**28** A fastening that is used to attach parts, clothing or ornamentation to a doll, plush toy or soft toy must be attached in such a way that no sharp edge or point becomes exposed with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy.




**Stuffing**

**29** Material that is used as stuffing in a doll, plush toy or soft toy must meet all of the following requirements:
- **(a)** it must be clean and free from vermin;
- **(b)** it must be free of hard and sharp foreign matter; and
- **(c)** it must be non-toxic and non-irritant in accordance with Schedules 2 and 3.




**Small parts**

**30** The squeaker, reed, valve or other similar device of a doll, plush toy or soft toy that can be totally enclosed in the small parts cylinder illustrated in Schedule 1 must be attached in such a way that it cannot come loose with reasonably foreseeable use of the toy.




**Eyes and noses**

**31** An eye or a nose — other than those made entirely of felt or another soft textile material — that measures 32 mm (1¼ inches) or less in its greatest dimension and that is attached to a doll, plush toy or soft toy must meet at least one of the following requirements:
- **(a)** it must not be capable of being gripped by a three-pronged claw hook as illustrated in Schedule 4; or
- **(b)** it must not detach when it is tested in accordance with Schedule 4.
> SOR/2012-71, s. 12(E).





**Flammability of outer covering**

**32** 

- **(1)** The outer covering of a doll, plush toy or soft toy that is made of flat or raised fibre textile material or natural fur must, when tested in accordance with Schedule 5, have a flame spread time of greater than 7 seconds.

**Exception — pile of less than 51 mm**

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply to an outer covering whose exposed pile length is less than 51 mm (2 inches) and whose small size prevents the removal of material, including any seam, that is sufficient for at least one of the specimens required for the test set out in Schedule 5.

**Exception — pile of 51 mm or more**

- **(3)** Subsection (1) does not apply to an outer covering whose exposed pile length is 51 mm (2 inches) or more and whose small size prevents the removal of material, including any seam, that is sufficient for at least one of the specimens required for the test set out in Schedule 5. The outer covering must not flame on a one-second impingement of the calibrated flame applied by the flammability tester described in section 1 of Schedule 6 or must self-extinguish within 2 seconds of the removal of the flame, after being subjected to all of the following procedures:
	- **(a)** if it is known to have a flame-retarding finish or if preliminary testing indicates that such a finish may be present, it is laundered in accordance with section 5 of Schedule 7;
	- **(b)** it is dried in an oven for 30 minutes at 105°C (221°F) or for 120 minutes at 75°C (167°F);
	- **(c)** it is removed from the oven; and
	- **(d)** it is placed until cool in a desiccator over a desiccant such as anhydrous calcium chloride for at least 15 minutes and not more than two hours.




**Flammability of yarn**

**33** 

- **(1)** The exposed surface of a doll, plush toy or soft toy that is made of spun staple yarn or bulked continuous filament yarn must have flame time spread of greater than 7 seconds in either of the following tests:
	- **(a)** that carried out in accordance with Schedule 7; or
	- **(b)** that carried out in accordance with Schedule 5 if the short length of the yarn prevents the removal of material that is sufficient for at least one of the specimens required for the test set out in Schedule 7.

**Exception**

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply to a doll, plush toy or soft toy whose size or the short length of its yarn prevents the removal of material, including any seam, that is sufficient for at least one of the specimens required for the test set out in Schedule 5.




**Flammability of hair or mane**

**34** The hair or mane, or simulated hair or simulated mane, of a doll, plush toy or soft toy, that is made of material other than yarn referred to in subsection 33(1), must not flame on a one-second impingement of the calibrated flame applied by the flammability tester described in section 1 of Schedule 6 or must self-extinguish within 2 seconds after the removal of the flame, after being subjected to all of the following procedures:
- **(a)** if it is known to have a flame-retarding finish or if preliminary testing indicates that such a finish may be present, it is laundered in accordance with section 5 of Schedule 7;
- **(b)** it is dried in an oven for 30 minutes at 105°C (221°F) or for 120 minutes at 75°C (167°F);
- **(c)** it is removed from the oven; and
- **(d)** it is placed until cool in a desiccator over a desiccant such as anhydrous calcium chloride for at least 15 minutes and not more than 2 hours.




### Plant Seeds



**Plant seeds — noise**

**35** A toy that is intended for use by a child of less than three years of age must not contain plant seeds as pellets for making noise.




**Plant seeds — stuffing material**

**36** A toy must not contain plant seeds as stuffing material.




### Pull and Push Toys



**Shaft-like handles**

**37** 

- **(1)** A pull and push toy that has a shaft-like handle that measures 10 mm (3/8 inch) or less in diameter must have a protective tip that is placed on the end of the handle to prevent puncture wounds and that is able to withstand a pulling force of 44.5 N (10 pounds).

**Meaning of toy**

- **(2)** For the purposes of subsection (1), ***toy*** means a product that is intended for use by a child in play.




### Toy Steam Engines



**Boilers — safety valves**

**38** 

- **(1)** A toy steam engine boiler must meet all of the following requirements:
	- **(a)** it must be fitted with a firmly installed spring valve or any safety valve other than a weight valve;
	- **(b)** the operating pressure of the safety valve must not be more than one and one-half times the operating pressure of the steam boiler to which it is fitted; and
	- **(c)** the boiler must be constructed to withstand, without rupture, at least three times its operating pressure.

**Meaning of operating pressure**

- **(2)** For the purposes of subsection (1), the operating pressure of a boiler is the steam pressure in the boiler that adjusts itself after the steam engine has been running without a load.

**Meaning of toy**

- **(3)** For the purposes of subsection (1), ***toy*** means a product that is intended for use by a child in play.




### Finger Paints



**Water-based paints**

**39** Finger paints must be water based.




### Rattles



**Construction**

**40** A rattle must meet all of the following requirements:
- **(a)** a sharp wire must not become exposed with the reasonably foreseeable use of the rattle;
- **(b)** a part of the rattle must not impinge on the base of the template illustrated in Schedule 8, when tested in accordance with that Schedule; and
- **(c)** a component of the rattle that can be removed by the application of a force of 50 N (11.23 pounds) or less or a torque of less than one N-m (8.85 inch-pounds) must not impinge on the base of the template illustrated in Schedule 8, when tested in accordance with that Schedule.




### Elastics



**Length or extensibility**

**41** An elastic that is used to attach a toy across a baby carriage, crib or playpen must meet at least one of the following requirements:
- **(a)** its extensibility must not be more than 75% of its unstretched length; or
- **(b)** its fully-stretched length must not be more than 750 mm (30 inches).
> SOR/2012-71, s. 13(E).





### Yo-yo Type Balls



**Stretchable cords**

**42** 

- **(1)** The stretchable cord of a yo-yo type ball must not be capable of extending to 500 mm (20 inches) or greater in length.

**Similar product**

- **(2)** A stretchable cord that is made of a soft pliable material and that is attached to a ball, or to an object of any other shape — whether or not the ball or object is made of the same material — must not be capable of extending to 500 mm (20 inches) or greater in length.




### Batteries



**Leakage**

**43** A battery that is used in or with a toy must be constructed to withstand without leakage the tests set out in Schedule 9.




## Repeal


**44** [Repeal]




## Consequential Amendments



### [Carriages and Strollers Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2016/167.md)


**45** [Amendment]




### [Hazardous Products (Pacifiers) Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/901-1000/C.R.C.,%20c.%20930.md)


**46** [Amendment]




### [Playpens Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2018/186.md)


**47** [Amendments]




## Coming into Force



**S.C. 2010, c. 21**

<sup><a href='#fn_Ind2138_hq_10457'>[*]</a></sup>**48** These Regulations come into force on the day on which section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) comes into force.

<a name='fn_Ind2138_hq_10457'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force June 20, 2011, *see* SI/2011-12.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(subsection 7(1) and section 30)**
## Small Parts Cylinder
A toy or component of a toy that can be totally enclosed in the small parts cylinder illustrated below — using a force of not more than 4.45 N (1 pound) — is an aspiration or an ingestion hazard:


> Image: Illustration of measurements for a small parts cylinder. The small parts cylinder is a hollow cylinder with an inner diameter of 31.7 mm. A plate (or similar device) is placed inside the cylinder at a 45 degree angle such that the minimum depth of the cylinder is 25.4 mm and the maximum depth of the cylinder is 57.1 mm. No specifications are provided for the wall or floor thickness of the cylinder.

Notes:

**–** Not to scale



**–** All dimensions in mm







### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(paragraphs 25(c) and 29(c))**
## Permissible Limits of Toxicity
**1** 

- **(1)** For the purposes of paragraphs 25(c) and 29(c) of these Regulations, a substance is excessively toxic for humans in all of the following cases:
	- **(a)** its acute oral LD<sub>50</sub> value for rat is 5 g or less per kg of body weight;
	- **(b)** its acute dermal LD<sub>50</sub> value for rabbit is 2 g or less per kg of body weight; and
	- **(c)** its LC<sub>50</sub> value for a one-hour exposure, determined using rats, is 20,000 ppm by volume of gas or vapour or less, or 200 mg/L by volume of mist or dust or less, if gas, vapour, mist or dust is likely to be encountered when the substance is used in a reasonably foreseeable manner.

- **(2)** LD<sub>50</sub> values are to be determined in conformity with good toxicological practice.

- **(3)** The number of deaths during a 14-day period after dosage is to be used as the basis for calculation of the LD<sub>50</sub> value.

- **(4)** A sufficient number of animals are to be used to give a statistically significant result. The result is to be calculated using methods based on good statistical practice.

- **(5)** The methods referred to in the following publications, and other methods giving similar results, are acceptable:
	- **(a)** C.I. Bliss, “The determination of the dosage-mortality curve from small numbers”, Quarterly Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, 1938, Volume 11, page 192; and
	- **(b)** J.T. Litchfield and W.F. Wilcoxon, “A simplified method of evaluating dose-effect experiments”, Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 1949, Volume 96, page 99.



## Method for Determining Dermal LD<sub>50</sub> Value

**2** The dermal LD<sub>50</sub> value is to be determined in the following manner:
- **(a)** Prepare the animals by clipping the skin of the trunk free of hair. For approximately one half of the animals, make epidermal abrasions every 2 cm (0.8 inches) or 3 cm (1.2 inches) longitudinally over the area of exposure. Ensure that the abrasions are sufficiently deep to penetrate the *stratum corneum* (horny layer of the epidermis), but not so deep as to disturb the derma — that is, not to produce bleeding.
- **(b)** In the acute exposures, hold the agent in contact with the skin by means of a sleeve for periods varying up to 24 hours. Use a sleeve made of rubber dam or other impervious material so that the sleeve has ends reinforced with additional strips and fits snugly around the trunk of the animal. Tuck the ends of the sleeve to permit the central portion to “balloon” and furnish a reservoir for the dose. Ensure that the reservoir has sufficient capacity to contain the dose without pressure. The dimensions of the sleeves and the approximate body surface exposed to the test substance are set out in the following table.
#### DIMENSIONS OF SLEEVES FOR ACUTE DERMAL TOXICITY TEST
<table>
<tr>
<th>Diameter at ends</th>
<th>Overall length</th>
<th>Range of weight of animals</th>
<th>Average area of exposure</th>
<th>Average percentage of total body surface</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7.0 cm (2.8 inches)</td>
<td>12.5 cm (4.9 inches)</td>
<td>2 500 g-3 500 g (5.5 pounds-7.7 pounds)</td>
<td>240 cm<sup>2</sup> (37.2 inches<sup>2</sup>)</td>
<td>10.7</td>
</tr>
</table>

- **(c)** Vary the size of the sleeves to accommodate smaller or larger subjects. Mesh wire screen may be used instead of the sleeve in the testing of unctuous materials that adhere readily to the skin. Pad and raise the screen approximately 2 cm (0.8 inches) from the exposed skin. In the case of dry powder preparations, moisten the skin and substance with physiological saline before exposure. Slip the sleeve or screen over the gauze which holds the dose applied to the skin. In the case of finely divided powders, distribute the measured dose evenly on cotton gauze and attach the gauze to the area of exposure.
- **(d)** Slip the sleeve onto the animal. Place the animal in a comfortable but immobilized position in a multiple animal holder. Introduce selected doses of liquids and solutions under the sleeve. Collect and reapply any slight leakage from the sleeve which may occur during the first few hours of exposure. Adjust dosage levels in subsequent exposures, if necessary, to enable a calculation of a dose that would be fatal to 50% of the animals. This can be determined from mortality ratios that are obtained based on the various doses that are used. At the end of 24 hours, remove the sleeves or screens, measure the volume of any unabsorbed material and note the skin reactions. Clean the subjects by thorough wiping, observe them for gross symptoms of poisoning and then observe them for two weeks.


**3** For the purposes of this Schedule, ***LD<sub>50</sub>*** means the dose that will kill 50% of test animals under the specified conditions of the test and ***LC<sub>50</sub>*** means the concentration of gas and vapour that will kill 50% of test animals under the specified conditions of the test.





### **SCHEDULE 3** 
**(paragraphs 26(b) and 29(c))**
## Criteria for Determining if a Substance Is Excessively Corrosive or Irritant or an Excessively Strong Sensitizer
**1** For the purposes of paragraph 26(b) and 29(c) of these Regulations, a substance or mixture of substances is excessively irritant if it is excessively irritant to the eye or the skin, when judged on human experience or when based on the test method set out in this Schedule.



### Method for Testing Eye Irritant Properties

**2** 

- **(1)** Use six albino rabbits for each test substance. Ensure that animal facilities for such procedures are designed and maintained so as to exclude sawdust, wood chips or other extraneous materials that might produce eye irritation. Examine both eyes of each rabbit before testing. Use only those rabbits without eye defects or irritation. Hold the rabbit firmly but gently until quiet. Place the test substance in one eye of each rabbit by gently pulling the lower lid away from the eyeball to form a cup into which the test substance is dropped. Gently hold the lids together for one second and then release the rabbit. The other eye, remaining untreated, serves as a control. For testing liquids, use 0.1 mL (2 drops) of the test substance. For testing solids or pastes, use 100 mg (1.5 grains) of the substance. For substances in flake, granule, powder or other particulate form, use the amount that has a volume of 0.1 mL (2 drops) (after compacting as much as possible without crushing or altering the individual particles, such as by tapping the measuring container) whenever this volume weighs less than 100 mg (1.5 grains). In such a case, record the weight of the 0.1 mL (2 drops) test dose. Do not wash the eyes after instillation of the test substance except as noted in subsection (2).

- **(2)** Examine the eyes and record the grade of ocular reaction at 24, 48 and 72 hours. Use a binocular loupe, hand-held slit-lamp or other expert means to facilitate observing the reactions. After recording the observations at 24 hours, the eyes may be further examined after fluorescein is applied. For this optional test, drop 0.05 mL (one drop) of fluorescein sodium ophthalmic solution U.S.P. or equivalent directly on the cornea. After flushing out the excess fluorescein with sodium chloride solution U.S.P. or equivalent, injured areas of the cornea appear yellow. This is best visualized in a darkened room under ultraviolet illumination. The eyes may be washed with sodium chloride solution U.S.P. or equivalent after the 24-hour recording.

- **(3)** A rabbit is considered to exhibit an excessive reaction if, at any of the observations, the test substance has produced one or more of the following reactions:
	- **(a)** an ulceration of the cornea, other than a fine stippling;
	- **(b)** an opacity of the cornea, other than a slight dulling of the normal luster;
	- **(c)** an inflammation of the iris, other than a slight deepening of the folds (or rugae) or a slight circumcorneal injection of the blood vessels; or
	- **(d)** an obvious swelling in the conjunctivae (excluding the cornea and iris) with partial eversion of the lids or a diffuse crimson-red with individual vessels that are not easily discernible.

- **(4)** The test is positive if four or more of the rabbits in the test group exhibit a positive reaction. If only one rabbit exhibits a positive reaction, the test is considered negative. If two or three rabbits exhibit a positive reaction, repeat the test using a different group of six rabbits. The second test is positive if three or more of the rabbits exhibit a positive reaction. If only one or two rabbits in the second test exhibit a positive reaction, repeat the test with a different group of six rabbits. If a third test is needed, the substance is excessively irritant if any rabbit exhibits a positive response.

- **(5)** The publication Illustrated Guide for Grading Eye Irritation by Hazardous Substances is sold by the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C., U.S.A. and may assist testing laboratories and other interested persons to interpret the results obtained when a substance is tested in accordance with subsection (1). The guide contains colour plates depicting responses of varying intensity to specific test substances. The grade of response and the substance used to produce the response are indicated.



### Method for Testing Skin Irritant Properties

**3** 

- **(1)** Measure primary irritation to the skin by a patch-test technique on the abraded and intact skin of an albino rabbit clipped free of hair. Use a minimum of six rabbits. Introduce the test substance — 0.5 mL (10 drops) in the case of liquids or 0.5 g (7-8 grains) in the case of solids or semisolids — under a square patch that is made up of two single layers of surgical gauze measuring 25 mm by 25 mm (1 inch by 1 inch). Dissolve solids in an appropriate solvent and apply the solution as in the case for liquids. Immobilize the rabbits and secure the patches in place with adhesive tape. Wrap the entire trunk of the rabbit with an impervious material such as rubberized cloth for the 24-hour period of exposure. This material aids in maintaining the test patches in position and retards the evaporation of volatile substances. After 24 hours of exposure, remove the patches and evaluate the resulting reactions on the basis of the designated values in the following table:
#### EVALUATION
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Evaluation of skin reactions</th>
<th>Value<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Erythema and eschar formation</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) No erythema </td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) Very slight erythema (barely perceptible) </td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(c) Well-defined erythema </td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(d) Moderate to severe erythema </td>
<td>3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(e) Severe erythema (beet redness) to slight eschar formation (injuries in depth) </td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Edema formation</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) No edema </td>
<td>0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) Very slight edema (barely perceptible) </td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(c) Slight edema (edges of area well defined by definite raising) </td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(d) Moderate edema (raised approximately 1 mm (0.04 inch) </td>
<td>3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(e) Severe edema (raised more than 1 mm (0.04 inch) and extending beyond the area of exposure) </td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
</table>


<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: The “value” recorded for each observation is the average value of the six or more rabbits subject to the test.<br />Repeat the observations at the end of a total of 72 hours (48 hours after the first observation). Make an equal number of exposures on areas of skin that have been previously abraded. Ensure that the abrasions are minor incisions through the *stratum corneum* (horny layer of the epidermis), but not sufficiently deep so as to disturb the derma or to produce bleeding. Evaluate the reactions of the abraded skin at 24 hours and 72 hours, as set out in this subsection. Add the values for erythema and eschar formation at 24 hours and at 72 hours for intact skin to the values on abraded skin at 24 hours and at 72 hours (four values). Similarly, add the values for edema formation at 24 hours and at 72 hours for intact and abraded skin (four values). Divide the total of the eight values by four to give the primary irritation score. A score of five or more indicates that the substance is excessively irritant.



- **(2)** For the purposes of paragraphs 26(b) and 29(c) of these Regulations, a substance is excessively corrosive if it causes visible destruction or irreversible changes in tissue at the site of the application.


**4** For the purposes of paragraphs 26(b) and 29(c) of these Regulations, a substance is an excessively strong sensitizer if it causes an allergenic sensitization in a substantial number of persons who come into contact with it.





### **SCHEDULE 4** 
**(section 31)**
## Method for Testing the Security of the Attachment of Eyes and Noses to Dolls, Plush Toys and Soft Toys

### Required Equipment

**1** 

- **(1)** A weight of 9 kg (20 pounds).

- **(2)** A three-pronged claw hook (see Figure 1).

- **(3)** A supporting disc with a circular hole that is 25.4 mm (1 inch) in diameter.

- **(4)** A supporting disc with a circular hole that is 38.1 mm (1½ inches) in diameter.



### Test Method

**2** 

- **(1)** Attach the claw hook to the eye or nose.

- **(2)** Support the disc in a horizontal position and pass the claw through the 25.4 mm (1 inch) diameter hole. If the opening provides insufficient clearance for the passage of the eye with the claw attached, or the nose with the claw attached, use the disc with the 38.1 mm (1½ inch) diameter hole.

- **(3)** Attach the weight to the claw hook, gradually releasing the weight over a period of approximately 5 seconds and leaving it freely suspended for a period of 5 minutes, measured from the time of first applying the load.

- **(4)** Repeat steps (1) to (3) for every eye or nose.
> Image: Illustration depicting specifications and measurements for a three-pronged claw hook. The claw hook consists of three prongs attached around a disk, which are curved inward at the bottom to hook onto the eyes or a nose of a toy. The contraption simulates the grasping effect of a human hand’s thumb, index and middle finger coming together, with the inward-oriented prongs being the nails.
(Dimensions are in inches: 1 inch = 25.4 mm)







### **SCHEDULE 5** 
**(sections 32 and 33)**
## Test Method for Dolls, Plush Toys and Soft Toys That Are Covered with a Flat or Raised Fibre Textile Material or Natural Fur
Remove the covering from the doll, plush toy or soft toy and test it in accordance with the following method:



### Scope

**1** This method covers the evaluation of the flammability of outer coverings of dolls, soft toys, plush toys, and any other product for use by a child in play, that are covered with a flat or raised fibre textile material or natural fur, including dolls’ clothing. In this Schedule, the term “raised fibre surface” means a napped, pile, tufted, flocked or similar surface.



### Procedure

**2** Cut specimens from the outer covering and prepare them by brushing the raised fibre surface, by laundering if they have a flame-retarding finish, and by drying. Hold each dried specimen at a 45° angle in the specimen holder of the flammability tester. Apply a standardized flame to the surface of the specimen near the lower end for one second. Record the time that is required for flaming to proceed up the specimen over a distance of 127 mm (5 inches).



### Required Materials

**3** 

- **(1)** Flammability tester described in section 1 of Schedule 6.

- **(2)** Brushing device described in section 2 of Schedule 6.

- **(3)** Laboratory drying oven.

- **(4)** Desiccator that is 250 mm (9.8 inches) in diameter.

- **(5)** Calcium chloride, anhydrous.

- **(6)** Butane, cp.

- **(7)** A commercially available detergent.

- **(8)** Mercerized cotton sewing thread No. 50.



### Test Specimens

**4** 

- **(1)** Select five test specimens, each measuring 51 mm by 152 mm (2 inches by 6 inches) from the part of the outer covering that burns most rapidly.

- **(2)** When possible, in order to select the specimens that burn most rapidly, determine the direction in which to cut the specimens and the part of the outer covering from which to select the specimens. Do this by making preliminary trials, in accordance with the 45° angle test, with specimens cut in different directions and from different locations on the outer covering. Cut the test specimens in the chosen direction and from the chosen location on the outer covering. For textiles that have a raised fibre surface, the long dimension usually is in the direction of the lay of the surface fibres.

- **(3)** Pieces may be removed and reassembled in the specimen holder in the same manner as in the original assembly, to the extent that the pieces are of such a size that they can be securely held in place by the specimen holder, if the outer covering is an assembly and a portion of the outer covering, including any seams, cannot be removed from the assembly in a size large enough to provide the required specimen.

- **(4)** If the outer covering is known to have a flame-retarding finish or if preliminary testing indicates that such a finish may be present, ensure that it is laundered in accordance with section 5.



### Laundering Procedure

**5** 

- **(1)** Precondition outer covering samples that are known to have or that are suspected of having a flame-retarding finish applied to them by subjecting them to the washing and drying procedure described in this section.

- **(2)** Prepare a bath solution that consists of water that has a hardness of not greater than 324 mg (5 grains) of calcium carbonate per 4.5 L (1.0 imperial gallons) in an amount 30 times the weight of the sample from which the specimens are to be taken and a commercially available detergent in an amount equal to 15% of this weight. Ensure that the temperature of the bath solution is from 35°C to 38°C inclusive (95°F to 100°F).

- **(3)** Immerse the sample and allow it to soak for 3 minutes. Work it gently by hand for 2 minutes, squeezing the bath solution through the part of the sample to be tested.

- **(4)** Rinse the sample three times in water that has a hardness of not greater than 324 mg (5 grains) of calcium carbonate per 4.5 L (1.0 imperial gallons) in an amount 30 times the weight of the sample. Ensure that the temperature of the rinse water is 27°C (80°F). Immerse and gently squeeze the sample in the first rinsing bath for 1 minute and in the second and third baths for 2 minutes each.

- **(5)** Remove excess water from the sample after each bath by squeezing gently. After the final rinsing bath blot out as much moisture as possible using paper towels or cotton terrycloth.

- **(6)** Lay the sample flat to dry at ambient temperature, namely, from 18°C to 24°C inclusive (65°F to 75°F).



### Preparation of Specimens

**6** 

- **(1)** Mark out five specimens, each 51 mm by 152 mm (2 inches by 6 inches), on the reverse side of the sample. Mark the longer dimension in the direction in which burning is most rapid, as established in the preliminary trials referred to in subsection 4(2). Identify the end of each specimen toward which flame spread is most rapid by attaching a staple to it. Cut the specimens from the outer covering.

- **(2)** Brush each specimen that has a raised fibre surface once against the lay of the surface fibres with the brushing device illustrated in Figure 2 of Schedule 6. Specimens that do not have a raised fibre surface do not require brushing.

- **(3)** Clamp each specimen individually in the specimen holders of the flammability tester illustrated in Figure 1 of Schedule 6. The stapled end is to be in the upper position during the test to ensure that the specimen is mounted in the direction in which burning is most rapid. Dry the mounted specimen in a horizontal position in an oven for 30 minutes at 105°C (221°F) or for 120 minutes at 75°C (167°F). Remove it from the oven and place it until cool in a desiccator over anhydrous calcium chloride for at least 15 minutes and not more than 2 hours.



### Procedure

**7** 

- **(1)** Adjust the position of the rack of the flammability tester with a holder and trial specimen (not a prepared specimen) so that the tip of the indicator touches the surface of the specimen.

- **(2)** Open the control valve of the fuel supply and allow approximately 5 minutes for the air to be driven from the fuel line. Ignite the gas and, with the door closed as far as possible, adjust the flame to a length of 16 mm (5/8 inch) measured from its tip to the opening in the gas nozzle.

- **(3)** Remove a mounted specimen from the desiccator and place it in position on the rack in the chamber of the flammability tester. Ensure that the flame impinges on the test specimen within 45 seconds after the time it is removed from the desiccator. String the stop cord (mercerized cotton sewing thread No. 50) through the guides in the upper plate of the specimen holder, across the top of the specimen, through the guides at the rear of the chamber and through the guide ring. Attach the weight to the cord close to and just below the guide ring.

- **(4)** Close the door of the flammability tester. Set the stop watch to zero. Conduct the test in a draft-free room with the flammability tester at room temperature.

- **(5)** Bring the starting lever over to the extreme right and release it. This starts the timing mechanism and applies the flame to the specimen for a period of one second. Timing is automatic, starting on the application of the flame and ending when the weight is released by the burning of the stop cord.

- **(6)** Record the flame spread time for each specimen.



### Interpretation of Results

**8** 

- **(1)** A specimen that exhibits either base burning or surface burning of sufficient intensity to sever the stop cord in 7 seconds or less is considered to have failed the test.

- **(2)** Test five additional specimens if one of the five specimens fail. If two out of 10 specimens fail, the doll, plush toy or soft toy does not meet the test requirement.





### **SCHEDULE 6** 
**(subsection 32(3), section 34 and Schedules 5 and 7)**
## Description of Apparatus

### Flammability Tester

**1** 

- **(1)** The flammability tester illustrated in Figure 1 consists of a draft-proof ventilated metal combustion chamber that encloses a standardized ignition medium, a specimen rack and an automatic timing device.

- **(2)** The combustion chamber prevents air circulation around the specimen rack and flame, but permits free ventilation for rapid combustion. The chamber is 368 mm (14½ inches) wide by 216 mm (8½ inches) deep by 356 mm (14 inches) high. There are 12 holes that measure 12.7 mm (½ inch) equidistant along the rear of the top closure. A ventilating strip is provided at the base of the sliding glass door in the front of the chamber.

- **(3)** The specimen rack provides support for the frames in which the specimens are mounted. The angle of inclination of the specimen rack is 45°. Two guide pins that project downward from the centre of the base of the rack are positioned into slots that are located in the floor of the combustion chamber. This allows for the adjustment of the specimen in relation to its thickness and the flame front. The specimen rack has an indicating finger with a fore part that touches the specimen when the rack is correctly adjusted.

- **(4)** The specimen holder consists of two 1.6 mm (1/16 inch) matched metal plates with clamps mounted along the sides of the plates. The specimen is fixed between the plates. The plates are slotted and loosely pinned for alignment. The two plates of the specimen holder cover the full length of the specimen but do not cover 38.1 mm (1½ inches) of its width. The specimen holder is supported in the combustion chamber on the rack at a 45° angle. Five specimen holders are provided.

- **(5)** Two control knobs hold the rack in test position. The knobs can be reached under the stage of the cabinet and permit, when loosened, forward and backward movements of the rack.

- **(6)** The ignition medium consists of a spring-motor driven gas jet formed around a 26-gauge hypodermic needle. A trigger located in the front of the flammability tester serves to wind the spring-motor when the flammability tester is ready for operation. The gas jet is protected by a copper shield.

- **(7)** The stop cord is stretched from the spool through suitable thread guides provided on the specimen holder and chamber walls. This allows the cord to be laced in the proper position, exactly 127 mm (5 inches) from the point where the centre of the ignition flame impinges on the test specimen. Use a mercerized sewing thread No. 50 for the stop cord.

- **(8)** A weight that is attached by means of a clip to the stop cord actuates the stop motion when it is dropped.

- **(9)** The glass door slides in grooves at the front of the cabinet. A knob moves the catch mechanism used to hold the sliding door in an open position for insertion of the test specimen holders.

- **(10)** A sensitive fuel control valve regulates the fuel supply at the tank. The valve ends in a ½-inch male connection for attachment to a standard No. 4 butane cylinder of 0.91 kg (2 pounds) capacity.

- **(11)** The flow meter consists of a U-shaped glass tube that is installed into the gas line to register the gas pressure delivered to the microburner. A movable metal plate with two parallel horizontal lines properly spaced to indicate the desired gas pressure is attached to the case wall behind the flow metre. When the pressure is off, the plate is regulated so that the liquid level in both sides of the U-shaped tube meets the lower line. When the flammability tester is in operation, the pressure is adjusted so that the higher liquid level in the U-shaped tube meets the upper line.

- **(12)** The starting lever is operated from left to right in one stroke and is released to operate the gas jet. A driving mechanism on the rear of the cabinet moves the gas jet to its most forward position. The mechanism automatically starts the stop watch by means of special attachments at the moment of flame impact. When the cord is cut, the weight drops on a platform and stops the watch. Timing is read directly.



### Brushing Device

**2** 

- **(1)** The brushing device illustrated in Figure 2 consists of a baseboard over which a small carriage is drawn on parallel tracks that are attached to the edges of the upper surface of the baseboard. The brush is hinged with pin hinges at the rear edge of the baseboard and rests vertically on the carriage with a pressure of 150 g (1/3 pound).

- **(2)** The brush consists of two rows of stiff nylon bristles mounted with the tufts in a staggered position. The bristles are 0.41 mm (0.016 inch) in diameter and 19 mm (0.75 inch) in length. There are 20 bristles per tuft and four tufts per 25 mm (1 inch). A clamp is attached to the forward edge of the carriage to permit the specimen to be held on the carriage during the brushing operation.

- **(3)** After the specimen has been put in place on the carriage and fastened by means of the clamp, raise the brush, push the carriage to the rear and lower the brush to the surface of the specimen. Then draw the carriage forward by hand at a constant speed.



### Modified Specimen Holder

**3** The modified specimen holder consists of the holder described in subsection 1(4) with the addition of 38-gauge (B & S) spring steel wire securely attached across its width at 1.27 cm (½ inch) intervals. This arrangement allows the calibrated flame to impinge at a point midway between the two lowest wires.



> Image: Photograph of flammability tester.

(Photograph courtesy of United States Testing Company, Inc., Hoboken, N.J., U.S.A.) / (*Photo* : United States Testing Company, Inc., Hoboken (N.J.), *États-Unis d’Amérique*)


> Image: Photograph of brushing device.

(Photograph courtesy of United States Testing Company, Inc., Hoboken, N.J., U.S.A.) / (*Photo* : United States Testing Company, Inc., Hoboken (N.J.), *États-Unis d’Amérique*)






### **SCHEDULE 7** 
**(paragraph 32(3)(a), subsection 33(1) and paragraph 34(a))**
## Test Method for Dolls, Plush Toys and Soft Toys That Are Made of or Covered with Spun Staple Yarn or Bulked Continuous Filament Yarn

### Scope

**1** This method covers the evaluation of the flammability of dolls, plush toys and soft toys that have at least one of the following characteristics:
- **(a)** they have exposed surfaces that consist of spun staple yarn or bulked continuous filament yarn; or
- **(b)** they are constructed, in whole or in part, of parallel bundles of spun staple yarn or bulked continuous filament yarn that are exposed.



### Procedure

**2** Prepare specimens that are cut from a doll, plush toy or soft toy by laundering (if they have a flame-retarding finish) and by drying. Hold the dried specimen at a 45° angle in the specimen holder of the flammability tester. Apply a standardized flame to the lower end for one second, and record the time that is required for flaming to proceed up the specimen over a distance of 127 mm (5 inches).



### Required Materials

**3** 

- **(1)** Flammability tester described in section 1 of Schedule 6.

- **(2)** Brushing device described in section 2 of Schedule 6.

- **(3)** Modified specimen holder described in section 3 of Schedule 6.

- **(4)** Laboratory drying oven.

- **(5)** Desiccator that is 250 mm (9.8 inches) in diameter.

- **(6)** Calcium chloride, anhydrous.

- **(7)** Butane, cp.

- **(8)** Commercially available detergent.

- **(9)** Mercerized cotton sewing thread No. 50.



### Test Specimens

**4** 

- **(1)** Ensure that the yarn is laundered in accordance with section 5 if it is known to have a flame-retarding finish or if preliminary testing indicates that such a finish may be present.

- **(2)** Select from the part of the outer covering that burns most rapidly specimens of the yarn that each measure 152 mm (6 inches) in length.



### Laundering Procedure

**5** 

- **(1)** Precondition outer covering samples that are known to have, or that are suspected of having, a flame-retarding finish applied to them by subjecting them to the washing and drying procedure described in this section.

- **(2)** Prepare a bath solution that consists of water that has a hardness of not greater than 324 mg (5 grains) of calcium carbonate per 4.5 L (1.0 imperial gallons) in an amount 30 times the weight of the sample and a commercially available detergent in an amount equal to 15% of this weight. Ensure that the temperature of the bath solution is from 35°C to 38°C inclusive (95°F to 100°F).

- **(3)** Immerse the sample and allow it to soak for 3 minutes. Work the sample gently by hand for 2 minutes, squeezing the bath solution through the part of the sample to be tested.

- **(4)** Rinse the sample three times in water that has a hardness not greater than 324 mg (5 grains) of calcium carbonate per 4.5 L (1.0 imperial gallons) in an amount 30 times the weight of the sample. Ensure that the temperature of the rinse water is 27°C (80°F). Immerse and gently squeeze the sample in the first rinsing bath for 1 minute and in the second and third baths for 2 minutes each.

- **(5)** Remove excess water from the sample after each bath by squeezing gently. After the final rinsing bath blot out as much moisture as possible using paper towels or cotton terrycloth.

- **(6)** Lay the sample flat to dry at ambient temperature, namely, from 18°C to 24°C inclusive (65°F to 75°F).



### Preparation of Specimens

**6** Place specimens side by side, without overlapping, and clamp sufficient 152 mm (6 inch) lengths of the yarn in the modified specimen holder to form a 25 mm (1 inch) wide specimen in the centre of the holder. The loose ends may be tucked under the bottom wire to hold them in place. Prepare five test specimens. Dry the mounted test specimens in an oven for 30 minutes at 105°C (221°F) or for 120 minutes at 75°C (167°F). Remove them from the oven and place them until cool in a desiccator over anhydrous calcium chloride for at least 15 minutes and not more than 2 hours.



### Procedure

**7** 

- **(1)** Open the control valve of the fuel supply and allow approximately 5 minutes for the air to be driven from the fuel line. Ignite the gas and, with the door closed as far as possible, adjust the flame to a length of 16 mm (5/8 inch) measured from its tip to the opening in the gas nozzle.

- **(2)** Remove a specimen from the desiccator and trim the lower ends to the length that will ensure that the ignition flame will contact the end of the yarn.

- **(3)** Test the specimen within 45 seconds after the time it is removed from the desiccator. String the stop cord (mercerized cotton sewing thread No. 50) through the guides in the upper plate of the specimen holder, across the top of the specimen, through the guides at the rear of the chamber and through the guide ring. Attach the weight to the cord close to and just below the guide ring.

- **(4)** Close the door of the flammability tester. Set the stop watch to zero. Conduct the test in a draft-free room with the flammability tester at room temperature.

- **(5)** Bring the starting lever over to the extreme right and release it. This starts the timing mechanism and applies the flame to the specimen for a period of one second. Timing is automatic, starting on application of the flame and ending when the weight is released by the burning of the stop cord.

- **(6)** Record the flame spread time for each specimen.



### Interpretation of Results

**8** 

- **(1)** A specimen that exhibits burning of sufficient intensity to sever the stop cord in 7 seconds or less is considered to have failed the test.

- **(2)** Test five additional specimens if one of the five fails. If two out of 10 specimens fail, the doll, plush toy or soft toy does not meet the test requirements.





### **SCHEDULE 8** 
**(paragraphs 40(b) and (c))**
## Template To Determine Impaction Hazard of Rattles
> Image: Illustration depicting specifications and measurements for a template to determine impaction hazard of rattles. The fixture is a rectangular block with a length of 80 mm, a width of 65 mm and a thickness of 30 mm. There is a centered cut-out through the middle of the rectangular block. The cut-out section is a rectangle with half-circles on opposite ends. The cut-out section has a total length of 50 mm and a total width of 35 mm. The half circles at each end of the rectangle have a radius of 17.5 mm, and the central rectangle of the cut-out is 15 mm in length and 35 mm in width.


### Instructions

**1** Place the template illustrated above on a horizontal surface.


**2** Under its own weight, apply the rattle or component of the rattle that is being tested to the opening in the template.





### **SCHEDULE 9** 
**(section 43)**
## Test Method for Batteries Used in Toys

### Vibration Test

**1** The test equipment is described in the standard entitled Standard Method of Vibration Test for Shipping Containers, ASTM D 999-68, published on June 18, 1968 by the American Society for Testing and Materials.



#### Step 1

**2** 

- **(1)** Place the battery on the table of the vibration tester in a normal vertical position. If required, install fences to prevent excessive rocking or moving on the table.

#### Step 2


- **(2)** Set the vibration frequency at the minimum speed sufficient to cause the battery to leave the table momentarily so that the shim may be inserted at least 102 mm (4 inches) between the bottom of the battery and the surface of the table. Ensure that the piece of metal is capable of being intermittently moved along one entire edge of the longest dimension of the battery.

#### Step 3


- **(3)** Vibrate the battery for 10 minutes. Rotate the battery so that another of its surfaces is in contact with the table. Vibrate for 10 minutes. Repeat for all battery surfaces.

#### Step 4


- **(4)** Inspect the exterior of the battery for visible damage. Check for the presence of acid on the battery surface.



### Drop Test

**3** The drop test applies to batteries that weigh less than 23 kg (50 pounds).


**4** The test equipment is described in the standard entitled Standard Method of Drop Test for Shipping Containers, ASTM D 775-61, published in 1961 by the American Society for Testing and Materials, or in the standard entitled Drop Test for Fibreboard Shipping Containers, No. T. 802m-44, published by the Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry, United States of America, in 1944.



#### Step 1

**5** 

- **(1)** Place the battery in its normal position, face one end of the container and identify the surfaces as follows:
	- **(a)** top as 1;
	- **(b)** right side as 2;
	- **(c)** bottom as 3;
	- **(d)** left side as 4;
	- **(e)** near end as 5; and
	- **(f)** far end as 6.

#### Step 2


- **(2)** Identify the edges by the numbers of the two surfaces that form that edge. For example, the edge formed by the top and right side is identified as 1-2.

#### Step 3


- **(3)** Identify the corners by the numbers of the three surfaces that meet to form that corner. For example, the corner formed by the right side, bottom and near end is identified as 2-3-5.

#### Step 4


- **(4)** Drop the battery from a height of 457 mm (18 inches) in the following sequence:
	- **(a)** the 2-3-5 corner;
	- **(b)** the shortest edge radiating from that corner;
	- **(c)** the next longest edge radiating from that corner;
	- **(d)** the longest edge radiating from that corner;
	- **(e)** flat on one of the smallest faces;
	- **(f)** flat on the opposite small face;
	- **(g)** flat on one of the medium faces;
	- **(h)** flat on the opposite medium face;
	- **(i)** flat on one of the largest faces;
	- **(j)** flat on the opposite large face.

#### Step 5


- **(5)** Inspect the exterior of the battery for visible damage. Check for the presence of acid on the battery surface.



