> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2011/22.md)

# Textile Flammability Regulations

**SOR/2011-22**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 4 February 2011

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Textile Flammability Regulations.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***bedding*** means bedding composed of textile fibres.

***textile products*** means products composed of textile fibres, other than bedding.




## Application



**Scope**

**2** These Regulations apply to the importation, advertising and sale of textile products and bedding.




## Non-Application



**Excluded products**

**3** These Regulations do not apply to the following products:
- **(a)** children’s sleepwear in sizes up to and including 14X;
- **(b)** dolls, plush toys and soft toys;
- **(c)** cribs, cradles and bassinets;
- **(d)** playpens;
- **(e)** expansion gates and expandable enclosures for children;
- **(f)** carpets, carpeting, carpet tiles, mats, matting and rugs;
- **(g)** tents, including dining shelters; and
- **(h)** mattresses.




## Minimum Requirements for Flammability



**Products without a raised fibre surface**

**4** 

- **(1)** The flame spread time for textile products without a raised fibre surface must be greater than 3.5 seconds.

**Products with a raised fibre surface**

- **(2)** The flame spread time for textile products with a raised fibre surface that exhibits ignition or fusion of its base fibres must be greater than 4 seconds.




**Bedding**

**5** The flame spread time for bedding without a raised fibre surface, or bedding with a raised fibre surface that exhibits ignition or fusion of its base fibres, must be greater than 7 seconds.




## Applicable Standard



**Standard**

**6** Flame spread time must be determined according to the Canadian General Standards Board standard CAN/CGSB-4.2 No. 27.5, entitled Textile Test Methods — Flame Resistance — 45° Angle Test — One-Second Flame Impingement, as amended from time to time.




## Coming into Force



**S.C. 2010, c. 21**

<sup><a href='#fn_Ind1812_hq_10442'>[*]</a></sup>**7** These Regulations come into force on the day on which section 37 of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md) comes into force.

<a name='fn_Ind1812_hq_10442'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force June 20, 2011, *see* SI/2011-12.]<br />


