> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2011/33.md)

# British Columbia Cranberry Order

**SOR/2011-33**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 10 February 2011

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2<sup><a href='#fn_612589-E_hq_7722'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Agricultural Products Marketing Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)<sup><a href='#fn_612589-E_hq_7723'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed British Columbia Cranberry Order.

<a name='fn_612589-E_hq_7722'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 34, s. 2<br />

<a name='fn_612589-E_hq_7723'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. A-6<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Act*** means the Natural Products Marketing (BC) Act, RSBC 1996, c. 330. (*Loi*)

***Commission*** means the British Columbia Cranberry Marketing Commission. (*Commission*)

***cranberries*** means any variety of cranberries (*vaccinium macrocarpon*) grown in the area to which the Plan relates. (*canneberge*)

***Plan*** means the British Columbia Cranberry Marketing Scheme, 1968. (*plan*)




## Interprovincial and Export Trade


**2** The Commission is authorized to regulate the marketing of cranberries in interprovincial and export trade, and for those purposes may, with respect to persons and property situated within British Columbia, exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by it in relation to the marketing of cranberries locally within that province under the Act and the Plan.




## Levies and Charges


**3** The Commission may, in relation to the powers granted to it by section 2,
- **(a)** fix, impose and collect levies or charges from persons within British Columbia who are engaged in the production or marketing of cranberries or any part of cranberries and for that purpose may classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and
- **(b)** use the levies or charges for the purposes of the Commission, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of cranberries and the equalization or adjustment among producers of cranberries of money realized from the sale of cranberries during any period that the Commission may determine.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


