> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/84/20.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Winter Wheat Marketed in the 1982-83 Crop Year

**SOR/84-20**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 22 December 1983

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to sections 2, 8.2, 10 and 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act<sup><a href='#footnote1star_e'>[*]</a></sup>, being of the opinion that the market situation for winter wheat in Ontario, Quebec and the Maritimes is substantially different from the market situation therefor in the rest of Canada, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of winter wheat marketed in the 1982-83 crop year.

<a name='footnote1star_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1974-75-76, c. 63<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Winter Wheat Stabilization Regulations, 1982-83.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Maritimes*** means New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island; (*Maritimes*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Ontario, Quebec or the Maritimes and producing winter wheat in Ontario, Quebec or the Maritimes; (*producteur*)

***winter wheat*** means white winter wheat of grades No. 1 Canada Eastern, No. 2 Canada Eastern, No. 3 Canada Eastern and No. 4 Canada Eastern set out in Schedule I to the [Canada Grain Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-10.md) grown in Ontario, Quebec or the Maritimes by a producer in the 1982-83 crop year and sold by the producer on or before July 31, 1983. (*blé d’hiver*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Winter wheat is hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purposes of determining the prescribed price of winter wheat for the 1982-83 crop year, the percentage of the base price of winter wheat for that crop year is hereby prescribed to be 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of winter wheat for the 1982-83 crop year shall be the amount obtained by adjusting 90 per cent of the base price of winter wheat for that crop year by the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.


