> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/84/22.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Greenhouse Cucumbers Marketed in 1982

**SOR/84-22**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 22 December 1983

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to sections 2, 8.2, 10 and 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act<sup><a href='#footnote1star_e'>[*]</a></sup>, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of greenhouse cucumbers marketed in 1982.

<a name='footnote1star_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1974-75-76, c. 63<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Greenhouse Cucumber Stabilization Regulations, 1982.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***acceptable grade*** means the Canada No. 1 or Canada No. 2 grade of greenhouse cucumbers as prescribed under the [Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/201-300/C.R.C.,%20c.%20285.md) pursuant to the Canada Agricultural Products Standards Act; (*catégorie acceptable*)

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***greenhouse cucumbers*** means fresh cucumbers grown in Canada by a producer during the first eight months of 1982 and sold as fresh produce of an acceptable grade by a producer on or before August 31, 1982; (*concombres de serre*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing greenhouse cucumbers in Canada. (*producteur*) 
> SOR/84-353, s. 1(F).





## Designated Commodity


**3** Greenhouse cucumbers are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purposes of determining the prescribed price of greenhouse cucumbers for the year 1982, the percentage of the base price of greenhouse cucumbers for that year is hereby prescribed to be 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of greenhouse cucumbers for the year 1982 shall be the amount obtained by adjusting 90 per cent of the base price of cucumbers for that crop year by the index applicable thereto, calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.


