> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/84/253.md)

# Regulations Prescribing Tariffs of Pilotage Charges to be Paid to the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority

**SOR/84-253**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PILOTAGE ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md)

Date registered: 22 March 1984

----------

Whereas the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority, Ltd., proposed to make Regulations Prescribing Tariffs of Pilotage Charges to be paid to the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority Ltd., pursuant to section 22 of the [Pilotage Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md), and did publish that proposed tariff in the Canada Gazette Part I on January 19, 1984;

And Whereas more than thirty days have expired from the date of publication and no notices of objection to the proposed amendment were filed with the Canadian Transport Commission pursuant to subsection 23(2) of the [Pilotage Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md).

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to subsection 22(1) of the [Pilotage Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md), is pleased hereby to approve the revocation of the Great Lakes Pilotage Tariff Regulations, C.R.C., c. 1267, and approve, in substitution therefor, the annexed Regulations Prescribing Tariffs of Pilotage Charges to be paid to the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority, Ltd. for Pilotage, made by the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority, Ltd., on February 22, 1984.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Great Lakes Pilotage Tariff Regulations.
> SOR/96-409, s. 1(F).





## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Authority*** means the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority; (*Administration*)

***breadth***, in respect of a ship, means the maximum breadth in metres to the outside of the shell plating of the ship; (*largeur*)

***Cornwall District*** means the Canadian waters of the St. Lawrence River between the northern entrance to St. Lambert Lock and the pilot boarding station near St. Ridges in the Province of Quebec; (*circonscription de Cornwall*)

***depth***, in respect of a ship, means the vertical distance in metres at amidships from the top of the keel plate to the uppermost continuous deck, fore and aft, that extends to the side of the ship and, for the purposes of this definition, continuity of a deck is deemed not to be affected by the existence of tonnage openings, engine spaces or a step in the deck; (*creux*)

***designated waters*** means the waters in International Districts Nos. 1, 2 and 3; (*eaux désignées*)

***International District No. 1*** has the meaning assigned in paragraph 3(b) of the [Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201266.md); (*circonscription internationale n<sup>o</sup> 1*)

***International District No. 2*** has the meaning assigned in paragraph 3(c) of the [Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201266.md); (*circonscription internationale n<sup>o</sup> 2*)

***International District No. 3*** has the meaning assigned in paragraph 3(d) of the [Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201266.md); (*circonscription internationale n<sup>o</sup> 3*)

***length***, in respect of a ship, means the distance in metres between the forward and aft extremities of the ship; (*longueur*)

***movage*** means the shifting of a ship from one place to another within the confines of a harbour but does not include a shifting carried out solely by means of a ship's lines for the purpose of loading or discharging cargo or clearing berthing space for the use of another ship; (*déplacement*)

***undesignated waters*** means the Canadian waters of Lake Ontario, Lake Erie, Lake Huron and Lake Superior that are not designated waters. (*eaux non désignées*)
> SOR/96-409, s. 2(E); SOR/2002-110, s. 2; SOR/2003-56, s. 1.





## Pilotage Charges


**3** 

- **(1)** The charge for a pilotage service in
	- **(a)** the Welland Canal is
		- **(i)** where a basic charge is specified in Schedule I in respect of that service, the basic charge multiplied by the weighting factor of the ship, and
		- **(ii)** where a charge is specified in Schedule I in respect of that service, the charge specified;
	- **(b)** the Cornwall District is,
		- **(i)** where a basic charge is specified in Schedule II in respect of that service, the basic charge multiplied by the weighting factor of the ship, and
		- **(ii)** where a charge is specified in Schedule II in respect of that service, the charge specified; and
	- **(b.1)** the Port of Churchill is, where a basic charge is specified in Schedule III in respect of that service, the basic charge multiplied by the weighting factor of the ship;
	- **(c)** a compulsory pilotage area, other than the Welland Canal, the Cornwall District or the Port of Churchill, Manitoba, is
		- **(i)** where a basic charge is specified in Schedule I in respect of that service, the basic charge multiplied by the weighting factor of the ship, and
		- **(ii)** where a charge is specified in Schedule I in respect of that service, the charge specified; and
	- **(d)** contiguous waters having the meaning of paragraph 20(2)(b) of the [Pilotage Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md), where a Canadian pilot provides a service, is calculated on the same basis as provided in paragraph (c).

- **(1.1)** [Repealed, SOR/94-167, s. 1]

- **(2)** For the purpose of subsection (1), the weighting factor of a ship whose location is set out in column 1 and whose pilotage unit is set out in column 2 of the following table is set out in column 3:
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Location</th>
<th>Pilotage Unit</th>
<th>Weighting Factor</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Anywhere</td>
<td>Not more than 49</td>
<td>1.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Anywhere</td>
<td>More than 49 but not more than 159</td>
<td>1.15</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Anywhere</td>
<td>More than 159 but not more than 189</td>
<td>1.30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Anywhere</td>
<td>More than 189 but not more than 219</td>
<td>1.45</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Anywhere other than the Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 219</td>
<td>1.45</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 219 but not more than 249</td>
<td>1.60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 249 but not more than 279</td>
<td>1.75</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 279 but not more than 309</td>
<td>1.90</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 309 but not more than 339</td>
<td>2.05</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 339 but not more than 369</td>
<td>2.20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 369 but not more than 399</td>
<td>2.35</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 399 but not more than 429</td>
<td>2.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 429 but not more than 459</td>
<td>2.65</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>The Port of Churchill</td>
<td>More than 459</td>
<td>2.80</td>
</tr>
</table>


- **(3)** For the purposes of subsection (2), the pilotage unit of a ship is the number obtained by multiplying the length of the ship by the breadth of the ship by the depth of the ship and dividing the product obtained by 283.17.

- **(4)** [Repealed, SOR/89-108, s. 1]

- **(5)** [Repealed, SOR/2005-281, s. 1]
> SOR/86-449, s. 1; SOR/88-420, s. 1; SOR/89-108, s. 1; SOR/90-204, s. 1(E); SOR/91-143, s. 2(F); SOR/92-163, ss. 2, 4(F); SOR/94-167, s. 1; SOR/94-509, s. 1; SOR/96-409, s. 5(E); SOR/99-156, s. 1; SOR/2002-110, s. 3; SOR/2003-56, s. 2; SOR/2003-322, s. 1; SOR/2004-196, s. 1(F); SOR/2005-281, s. 1; SOR/2006-192, ss. 1, 13; SOR/2008-179, s. 1.





### Temporary Surcharge


**4** A surcharge of 15% is payable until December 31, 2010 on each pilotage charge payable under section 3 for a pilotage service provided in accordance with any of Schedules I to III.
> SOR/2009-124, s. 1; SOR/2009-272, s. 1.





### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(Section 3)**
## Pilotage Charges for Areas Other than the Cornwall District or the Port of Churchill, Manitoba

### Designated Waters and Contiguous Waters

**1** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the basic charge for a passage, other than a movage, through International District No. 1 or any part of it and its contiguous waters is $16.39 for each kilometre ($27.28 for each statute mile), plus $364 for each lock transited.

- **(2)** The minimum and maximum basic charges for a through trip through International District No. 1 and its contiguous waters are $797 and $3,498, respectively.

- **(3)** The basic charge for a movage in International District No. 1 and its contiguous waters is $1,200.

- **(4)** If a ship, during its passage through the Welland Canal, docks or undocks for any reason other than instructions given by The St. Lawrence Seaway Management Corporation, the basic charge is $48 for each kilometre ($79.26 for each statute mile), plus $296 for each lock transited, with a minimum charge of $986.

- **(5)** The basic charge for a pilotage service in International District No. 2 and its contiguous waters, other than that specified in subsection (4), set out in column 1 of the following table is set out in column 2:
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Pilotage Service</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Through the Welland Canal, where the pilot is changed at Lock 7,</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) for that portion of the passage between the northern limit of the Canal and Lock 7</td>
<td>1,818</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) for that portion of the passage between Lock 7 and the southern limit of the Canal</td>
<td>1,818</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Between Southeast Shoal and Toledo or any point on Lake Erie west of Southeast Shoal</td>
<td>1,944</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Between points on Lake Erie west of Southeast Shoal</td>
<td>1,147</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Between Southeast Shoal and the Port Huron Change Point or any point on the St. Clair River, where the pilot is not changed at the Detroit pilot boat</td>
<td>3,380</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Between Southeast Shoal and Detroit, Windsor or any point on the Detroit River</td>
<td>1,944</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Between Southeast Shoal and the Detroit pilot boat</td>
<td>1,407</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Between Toledo or any point on Lake Erie west of Southeast Shoal and the Port Huron Change Point, where the pilot is not changed at the Detroit pilot boat</td>
<td>3,918</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Between Toledo or any point on Lake Erie west of Southeast Shoal and Detroit, Windsor or any point on the Detroit River</td>
<td>2,523</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Between Toledo or any point on Lake Erie west of Southeast Shoal and the Detroit pilot boat</td>
<td>1,944</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Between Detroit, Windsor or any point on the Detroit River and any point on the Detroit River</td>
<td>1,147</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Between Detroit, Windsor or any point on the Detroit River and the Port Huron Change Point or any point on the St. Clair River</td>
<td>2,543</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Between the Detroit pilot boat and any point on the St. Clair River</td>
<td>2,543</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Between the Detroit pilot boat and the Port Huron Change Point</td>
<td>1,974</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Between points on the St. Clair River</td>
<td>1,147</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Between the Port Huron Change Point and any point on the St. Clair River</td>
<td>1,407</td>
</tr>
</table>


- **(6)** The basic charge for a pilotage service in International District No. 3 and its contiguous waters set out in column 1 of the following table is set out in column 2:
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Pilotage Service</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Trip, other than a movage, between the southern limit of the District and the northern limit of the District or the Algoma Steel Corporation Wharf at Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario</td>
<td>2,595</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Trip, other than a movage, between the southern limit of the District and Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, or any point in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, other than the Algoma Steel Corporation Wharf at Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario</td>
<td>2,173</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Trip, other than a movage, between the northern limit of the District and Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, including the Algoma Steel Corporation Wharf at Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, or Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan</td>
<td>976</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Movage</td>
<td>976</td>
</tr>
</table>


- **(7)** [Repealed, SOR/2003-56, s. 3]



### Undesignated Waters and Contiguous Waters

**2** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the basic charge for a pilotage service set out in column 1 of the following table is set out in column 2:
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Pilotage Service</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Being present on board, for a six-hour period or part of a six-hour period, in the undesignated waters and contiguous waters of</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) Lake Ontario</td>
<td>765</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) Lake Erie</td>
<td>748</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(c) Lake Huron, Lake Michigan or Lake Superior</td>
<td>522</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Docking or undocking each time in the undesignated waters and contiguous waters of</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) Lake Ontario</td>
<td>729</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) Lake Erie</td>
<td>575</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(c) Lake Huron, Lake Michigan or Lake Superior</td>
<td>499</td>
</tr>
</table>


- **(2)** If a ship with a pilot on board makes a direct transit of the undesignated waters and contiguous waters of Lake Erie between Southeast Shoal and Port Colborne, the basic charges set out in subsection (1) are not chargeable unless
	- **(a)** the ship is required by law to have a pilot on board in those waters; or
	- **(b)** the pilot renders pilotage services in those waters at the request of the master of the ship.

- **(3)** The basic charge for pilotage services consisting of a lockage and a movage between Buffalo and any point on the Niagara River below the Black Rock Lock is $1,470.



### Detention

**3** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if, for the convenience of a ship, a pilot is detained after the end of the pilot’s assignment or during an interruption of the passage of the ship through designated waters or contiguous waters, an additional basic charge of $70 is payable for each hour or part of an hour that the pilot is detained.

- **(2)** The maximum basic charge payable under subsection (1) for any 24-hour period is $1,680.

- **(3)** No basic charge for the detention of a pilot is chargeable under this section during an interruption of the passage of a ship
	- **(a)** that is caused by ice, weather or traffic, unless the interruption is during the period beginning on December 1 in a year and ending on April 8 in the next year; or
	- **(b)** that ends during a period in respect of which a basic charge is imposed pursuant to paragraph 2(1)(a).



### Delays

**4** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), if the departure or movage of a ship to which a pilot has been assigned is delayed for the convenience of the ship for more than one hour after the pilot reports for duty at the designated boarding point, a basic charge of $70 is payable for each hour or part of an hour, including the first hour, of that delay.

- **(2)** The maximum basic charge payable under subsection (1) for any 24-hour period is $1,680.



### Cancellations

**5** 

- **(1)** If a request for pilotage services is cancelled after the pilot reports for duty at the designated boarding point, the basic charge is $1,449.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), if a request for pilotage services is cancelled more than one hour after the pilot reports for duty at the designated boarding point, in addition to the basic charge set out in subsection (1), a basic charge of $70 is payable for each hour or part of an hour, including the first hour, between the time the pilot reports for duty and the time of cancellation.

- **(3)** The maximum basic charge payable under subsection (2) for any 24-hour period is $1,680.

- **(4)** Where a request for pilotage services is cancelled after a pilot has left the pilot’s work station for the designated boarding point, there shall be, in addition to any other basic charge imposed pursuant to this section, a charge in an amount equal to reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by the pilot in travelling from the work station to that boarding point and back to the work station.



### Assignment of More Than One Pilot

**6** Where more than one pilot is assigned to a ship, the basic charges set out in this Schedule shall be multiplied by the number of pilots assigned.



### Slow-moving Ships

**6.1** 

- **(1)** If a ship exchanges pilots in accordance with subsection 8.1(1) of the [Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201266.md), the basic charges set out in this Schedule shall be multiplied in accordance with section 6.

- **(2)** If a ship that is required to exchange pilots under subsection 8.1(1) of the [Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201266.md) does not do so because no licensed pilots are available for an exchange, the basic charges set out in this Schedule shall be doubled.

- **(3)** Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in respect of a ship that is required to exchange pilots under subsection 8.1(1) of the [Great Lakes Pilotage Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201266.md) because the ship was slowed down by ice, weather or traffic.



### Overcarriage

**7** 

- **(1)** If a pilot is unable to board a ship at the normal boarding point and, to board it, must travel beyond the area for which the pilot’s services are requested, a basic charge of $417 is payable for each 24-hour period or part of a 24-hour period during which the pilot is away from the normal boarding point.

- **(2)** If a pilot is carried on a ship beyond the area for which the pilot’s services are requested, a basic charge of $417 is payable for each 24-hour period or part of a 24-hour period before the pilot is returned to the place where the pilot normally would have disembarked.

- **(3)** In addition to the basic charges set out in subsections (1) and (2), there shall be a charge in an amount equal to reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by a pilot that are directly associated with the requirement to travel to or from a place other than the pilot’s normal boarding or disembarking place.


> SOR/85-986, s. 1; SOR/86-450, s. 1; SOR/89-322, ss. 1 to 6; SOR/90-204, s. 2; SOR/91-143, ss. 1, 2(F); SOR/92-163, s. 3; SOR/94-167, s. 2; SOR/94-509, s. 2; SOR/96-409, s. 5(E); SOR/99-156, ss. 2 to 7; SOR/2000-75, ss. 1 to 5; SOR/2002-110, ss. 4 to 9; SOR/2003-56, s. 3; SOR/2003-278, ss. 1 to 6; SOR/2004-87, ss. 1 to 6; SOR/2004-196, ss. 2(F), 3 to 8; SOR/2005-97, ss. 1 to 6; SOR/2005-281, ss. 2, 3; SOR/2006-192, ss. 2 to 7, 14 to 19; SOR/2007-96, s. 2; SOR/2008-179, ss. 3 to 8, 15 to 20.




### **SCHEDULE II** 
**(Section 3)**
## Pilotage Charges for the Cornwall District

### General

**1** The basic charge for a pilotage service set out in column 1 of the following table is set out in column 2 but is subject to the minimum basic charge set out in column 3 if applicable:
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Pilotage Service</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
<th>Minimum Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Trip between the eastern limit of the Cornwall District and Cornwall or the pilot boarding station near Saint-Régis, Quebec</td>
<td>3,871</td>
<td>N/A</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Trip other than a trip referred to in item 1</td>
<td>17.77 for each kilometre (29.58 for each statute mile), plus 494 for each lock transited</td>
<td>996</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Docking or undocking for the purpose of loading or unloading cargo, stores or bunker fuel or of effecting repairs</td>
<td>694</td>
<td>N/A</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Movage</td>
<td>1,491</td>
<td>N/A</td>
</tr>
</table>



**2. and 3** [Repealed, SOR/2003-56, s. 4]



### Detention

**4** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and (3), if, for the convenience of a ship, a pilot is detained after the end of the pilot’s assignment or during an interruption of the passage of the ship through the Cornwall District, an additional basic charge of $130 is payable for each hour or part of an hour that the pilot is detained.

- **(2)** The maximum basic charge payable under subsection (1) for any 24-hour period is $3,120.

- **(3)** No basic charge for detention of a pilot is chargeable under this section during an interruption of the passage of a ship that is caused by ice, weather or traffic, unless the interruption is during the period beginning on December 1 in a year and ending on April 8 in the next year.



### Delays

**5** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), if the departure or movage of a ship to which a pilot has been assigned is delayed for the convenience of the ship for more than one hour after the pilot reports for duty at the designated boarding point, a basic charge of $130 is payable for each hour or part of an hour of that delay, including the first hour.

- **(2)** The maximum basic charge payable under subsection (1) for any 24-hour period is $3,120.



### Cancellations

**6** 

- **(1)** If a request for pilotage services is cancelled after the pilot reports for duty at the designated boarding point, the basic charge is $1,476.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), if a request for pilotage services is cancelled more than one hour after the pilot reports for duty at the designated boarding point, in addition to the basic charge set out in subsection (1), a basic charge of $130 is payable for each hour or part of an hour, including the first hour, between the time the pilot reports for duty and the time of the cancellation.

- **(3)** The maximum basic charge payable under subsection (2) for any 24-hour period is $3,120.

- **(4)** Where a request for pilotage services is cancelled after a pilot has left the pilot’s work station for the designated boarding point, there shall be, in addition to any other basic charge imposed pursuant to this section, a charge in an amount equal to reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by the pilot in travelling from the work station to that boarding point and back to the work station.



### Assignment of More Than One Pilot

**7** Where more than one pilot is assigned to a ship, the basic charges set out in this Schedule shall be multiplied by the number of pilots assigned.


> SOR/85-986, s. 1; SOR/86-450, s. 1; SOR/89-322, ss. 7 to 10; SOR/90-204, s. 2; SOR/91-143, ss. 1, 2(F); SOR/92-163, s. 3; SOR/94-509, s. 2; SOR/96-409, s. 5(E); SOR/99-156, ss. 8 to 11; SOR/2000-75, ss. 6 to 11; SOR/2002-110, ss. 10 to 13; SOR/2003-56, ss. 4 to 7; SOR/2003-278, ss. 7 to 10; SOR/2004-87, ss. 7 to 10; SOR/2004-196, ss. 9(F), 10 to 13; SOR/2005-97, ss. 7 to 10; SOR/2006-192, ss. 8 to 11, 20 to 23; SOR/2008-179, ss. 9 to 12, 21 to 24.




### **SCHEDULE III** 
**(Section 3)**
## Pilotage Charges for the Port of Churchill, Manitoba
**1** The basic charge for a pilotage service that is rendered during the period beginning on July 20 in any year and ending on October 31 in the same year and is set out in column 1 of the following table is set out in column 2:
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Pilotage Service</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Entering or exiting the port</td>
<td>1,103</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Movage</td>
<td>771</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Embarking or disembarking a pilot at a pilot boarding station if a boat is used</td>
<td>The amount charged to hire the boat</td>
</tr>
</table>



**2** The basic charges for services rendered in a year during the period preceding July 20 or the period following October 31 of the same year are the following:
- **(a)** the salary and benefits of the pilot, as contracted, beginning on the date of the pilot’s departure from the pilot’s home base and ending on the date of the pilot’s return;
- **(b)** the travel expenses of the pilot, starting from and ending at the pilot’s home base, including transportation, meals and lodging;
- **(c)** the cost of the pilot’s use of a pilot boat, helicopter or other means of transportation; and
- **(d)** an overhead charge of 15 per cent of the total amounts in paragraphs (a) to (c), to cover administrative and assignment costs.


**3** [Repealed, SOR/99-156, s. 13]


> SOR/85-986, s. 1; SOR/86-886, s. 1; SOR/89-108, s. 2; SOR/90-204, s. 2; SOR/91-143, ss. 1, 2(F); SOR/92-163, s. 3; SOR/94-167, s. 3; SOR/94-509, s. 2; SOR/96-409, ss. 3, 4; SOR/99-156, ss. 12, 13; SOR/2002-82, s. 1(E); SOR/2003-56, s. 8; SOR/2003-278, s. 11; SOR/2004-87, s. 11; SOR/2004-196, ss. 14(F), 15, 16(F); SOR/2005-97, s. 11; SOR/2006-192, ss. 12, 24; SOR/2008-179, ss. 13, 25.


