> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/84/409.md)

# Order Respecting the Withdrawal of Certain Lands in and Between the Bracebridge-Goodsir Inlets at Bathurst Island in the Northwest Territories From Disposal

**SOR/84-409**

Enabling authorities: 
- [TERRITORIAL LANDS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/T/T-7.md)

- [CANADA OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/O/O-7.md)

Date registered: 25 May 1984

----------

Whereas exploratory permits covering the lands described in Schedule I hereto (hereafter referred to as the “lands”) were issued by the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development under the [Canada Oil and Gas Land Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1501-1600/C.R.C.,%20c.%201518.md) and extensive exploration for oil and gas has been conducted pursuant to such permits (hereafter referred to as the “permits”);

Whereas Aberford Resources Ltd., Bankeno Mines Limited, Canterra Energy Ltd., Dome Petroleum Limited, Esso Resources Canada Limited, Francana Oil and Gas Limited, Global Arctic Islands Limited, Gulf Canada Resources Incorporated, Hudsons Bay Oil and Gas Company Limited, Panarctic Oils Limited, Phoenix Resources Company and Suncor Incorporated and Mildred H. and Ethel A. Hembdt are the interest owners in respect of the permits;

Whereas under subsection 63(1) of the Canada Oil and Gas Act<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-84-409_e_hq_7921'>[*]</a></sup>, the interest owners of such permits are required to negotiate an exploration agreement within a specified period of time in order to maintain the interests;

<a name='fn_SOR-84-409_e_hq_7921'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1980-81-82-83, c. 81<br />

Whereas it is intended to create a National Wildlife Area under the provisions of the [Canada Wildlife Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/W/W-9.md), to be located on the lands described in Schedules II and III hereto;

And Whereas in support of that intent the aforesaid interest owners have surrendered all interest in the lands described in Schedule I hereto.

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, is pleased hereby,

**(a)** pursuant to paragraph 19(a) of the [Territorial Lands Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/T/T-7.md), to revoke the Withdrawal of Certain Lands (Bathurst Island N.W.T.) from Disposal Order, made by Order in Council P.C. 1983-706 of 10th March, 1983<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-84-409_e_hq_7922'>[**]</a></sup>; and

<a name='fn_SOR-84-409_e_hq_7922'><sup>**</sup></a>: SI/83-65, 1983 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1173<br />



**(b)** pursuant to paragraph 19(a) of the [Territorial Lands Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/T/T-7.md) and subsection 5(2) of the Canada Oil and Gas Act, to make the annexed Order respecting the withdrawal of certain lands in and between the Bracebridge-Goodsir Inlets at Bathurst Island in the Northwest Territories from disposal, in substitution therefor.






## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Polar Bear Pass Withdrawal Order.




## Territorial Lands Act


**2** The lands described in Schedule II, being required for the protection of wildlife, wetlands and associated habitat, are hereby withdrawn from disposal under the [Territorial Lands Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/T/T-7.md).




## Canada Oil and Gas Act


**3** The lands described in Schedule III, being required for the protection of wildlife, wetlands, and associated habitat, which lands are not in Schedule II, are hereby withdrawn from the application of the Canada Oil and Gas Act.



**4** The lands described in Schedule I, that are not described in Schedules II and III, are hereby withdrawn from the application of the Canada Oil and Gas Act in order to facilitate the use of the lands described in Schedules II and III for the protection of wildlife, wetlands and associated habitat.




### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(s. 4)**
In the Northwest Territories; on Bathurst Island


All that parcel being described by the coordinates of the Northeast corner of the appropriate grid area in accordance with Canada Oil and Gas Act.
- lat. 76°00′ long. 98°00′ (South-half)
- lat. 75°50′ long. 98°00′
- lat. 75°40′ long. 98°00′
- lat. 75°30′ long. 98°00′ (North-half)
- lat. 75°20′ long. 98°00′ (East-half)
- lat. 75°10′ long. 98°00′ (East-half)
- lat. 76°00′ long. 98°30′
- lat. 75°50′ long. 98°30′
- lat. 75°40′ long. 98°30′
- lat. 75°30′ long. 98°30′
- lat. 75°20′ long. 98°30′
- lat. 75°10′ long. 98°30′
- lat. 75°20′ long. 99°00′ (East-half)
- lat. 75°10′ long. 99°00′ (East-half)





### **SCHEDULE II** 
**(s. 2)**
In the Northwest Territories; on Bathurst Island;


all that parcel being more particularly described as follows:

all topographic features hereinafter referred to being according to edition 1 of the Graham Moore Bay and McDougall Sound map sheets numbers 68G and 68H respectively of the National Topographic System, produced at a scale of 1:250,000 by the Army Survey Establishment, R.C.E. at Ottawa;



all co-ordinates quoted herein are Universal Transverse Mercator coordinates in Zone 14;



Commencing at a point on ordinary low water mark having coordinates of 8 421 000 north and 539 500 east;



thence in a southerly, southwesterly, southeasterly, northerly and northwesterly direction following the sinuosities of the coastline along ordinary low water mark of the west side of Queens Channel, Goodsir Inlet, the west side of Crosier Strait, around Brooman Point to a point on said low water mark having coordinates 8 383 300 north and 532 500 east;



thence westerly to point on ordinary low water mark having coordinates 8 383 300 north and 472 600 east;



thence in a north easterly, westerly, northerly, northwesterly and a generally southwesterly direction following the sinuosities of the coastline of Bracebridge Inlet along the said ordinary low water mark to a point having coordinates 8 391 300 north and 440 000 east;



thence northerly to a point having coordinates 8 410 000 north and 440 000 east;



thence easterly to a point having coordinates 8 410 000 north and 500 000 east;



thence northeasterly to the point of commencement; said parcel containing about 2 291 km<sup>2</sup>.







### **SCHEDULE III** 
**(s. 3)**
In the Northwest Territories; on Bathurst Island and adjoining waters;

all that parcel being more particularly described as follows: all topographic features hereinafter referred to being according to edition 1 of the Graham Moore Bay and McDougall Sound map sheets numbers 68G and 68H respectively, of the National Topographic System, produced at a scale of 1:250,000 by the Army Survey Establishment, R.C.E. at Ottawa,



all coordinates quoted herein are Universal Transverse Mercator coordinates in Zone 14;



Commencing at a point near Rapid Point having coordinates of 8 421 000 north and 540 000 east;



thence southerly to a point having coordinates of 8 412 400 north and 537 600 east;



thence southwesterly to a point having coordinates of 8 406 700 north and 531 300 east;



thence southeasterly to a point near Black Point having coordinates 8 401 500 north and 545 500 east;



thence southerly to a point having coordinates 8 373 800 north and 545 700 east;



thence southeasterly to a point having coordinates 8 368 700 north and 549 200 east;



thence southwesterly to a point near Brooman Point having coordinates 8 367 000 north and 548 000 east;



thence northwesterly to a point having coordinates 8 372 200 north and 542 500 east;



thence northerly to a point having coordinates 8 380 000 north and 541 600 east;



thence northwesterly to a point having coordinates 8 383 300 north and 536 200 east;



thence westerly to a point having coordinates 8 383 300 north and 472 600 east;



thence northwesterly to a point having coordinates 8 384 900 north and 470 900 east;



thence northerly to a point having coordinates 8 386 100 north and 470 800 east;



thence northeasterly to a point having coordinates 8 388 100 north and 475 600 east;



thence northerly to a point having coordinates 8 398 600 north and 476 400 east;



thence southwesterly to a point having coordinates 8 390 000 north and 440 000 east;



thence northerly to a point having coordinates 8 410 000 north and 440 000 east;



thence easterly to a point having coordinates 8 410 000 north and 500 000 east;



thence northeasterly to the point of commencement; said parcel containing about 2 624 km<sup>2</sup>.





