> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2001/261.md)

# United Nations Liberia Regulations

**SOR/2001-261**

Enabling authorities: 
- [UNITED NATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md)

Date registered: 12 July 2001

----------

Whereas the Security Council of the United Nations, under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, adopted Security Council Resolution 1343 (2001) on March 7, 2001;

And whereas it appears to the Governor in Council to be necessary to make regulations for enabling the measures set out in that Resolution to be effectively applied;

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to sections 2 and 3 of the [United Nations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md), hereby makes the annexed United Nations Liberia Regulations.




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***admission***[Repealed, SOR/2003-262, s. 2]

***aircraft*** includes a helicopter. (*aéronef*)

***arms and related material*** means any type of weapon, ammunition, military vehicle or military or paramilitary equipment, and includes their spare parts. (*armes et matériel connexe*)

***Canadian*** means an individual who is a citizen within the meaning of the [Citizenship Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-29.md) or a body corporate incorporated by or continued under the laws of Canada or a province. (*Canadien*)

***Canadian ship*** has the same meaning as in the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md). (*navire canadien*)

***Charles Taylor or his associates*** means former Liberian President Charles Taylor, his wife Jewell Howard Taylor, his son Charles Taylor Jr. and any senior officials of the former Taylor regime or allies or associates of the former president identified by the Committee of the Security Council. (*Charles Taylor ou ses associés*)

***Committee of the Security Council*** means the Committee of the Security Council of the United Nations established by Security Council Resolution 1521 (2003) of December 22, 2003. (*Comité du Conseil de sécurité*)

***common-law partner***[Repealed, SOR/2003-262, s. 2]

***entity*** means a body corporate, a trust, a partnership, a fund, an unincorporated association or organization or a foreign state. (*entité*)

***Liberia*** means the Republic of Liberia and includes its political subdivisions. (*Libéria*)

***person*** means an individual or an entity. (*personne*)

***property*** means property of every description and documents relating to or evidencing the title or right to property, or giving a right to recover or receive money or goods, and includes any funds, financial assets or economic resources. (*bien*)

***rough diamond*** includes any unrefined, partly refined, uncut or otherwise unprocessed diamond. (*diamant brut*)

***Security Council Resolution***[Repealed, SOR/2003-262, s. 2]

***Security Council Resolutions*** means Resolution 1521 (2003) of December 22, 2003 and Resolution 1532 (2004) of March 12, 2004, adopted by the Security Council of the United Nations. (*résolutions du Conseil de sécurité*)

***technical assistance*** means any form of assistance, such as providing instruction, training, consulting services or technical advice or transferring know-how or technical data. (*aide technique*)

***technical data*** includes blueprints, technical drawings, photographic imagery, computer software, models, formulas, engineering designs and specifications, technical and operating manuals and any technical information. (*données techniques*) 
> SOR/2003-262, s. 2; SOR/2004-153, s. 1.





## Application


**2** These Regulations are binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.




## Prohibitions


**3** Subject to sections 6 to 7.1, no person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly export, sell, supply or ship arms and related material, wherever situated, to any person in Liberia.
> SOR/2004-153, s. 2.




**4** Subject to sections 6 to 7.1, no owner or master of a Canadian ship and no operator of an aircraft registered in Canada shall knowingly carry, cause to be carried or permit to be carried, arms and related material, wherever situated, destined for Liberia or any person in Liberia.
> SOR/2004-153, s. 2.




**5** Subject to sections 6 to 7.1, no person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly provide, directly or indirectly, to any person in Liberia technical assistance related to the provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of arms and related material.
> SOR/2004-153, s. 2.




**6** Sections 3 to 5 do not apply in respect of supplies of non-lethal military equipment intended solely for humanitarian or protective use, and the provision of related technical assistance, as approved in advance by the Committee of the Security Council.



**7** Sections 3 to 5 do not apply in respect of protective clothing, including flak jackets and military helmets, temporarily exported to Liberia by United Nations personnel, representatives of the media and humanitarian and development workers and associated personnel, for their personal use only.



**7.1** Sections 3 to 5 do not apply in respect of arms and related material or technical assistance that
- **(a)** is intended solely for the United Nations Mission in Liberia; or
- **(b)** if approved in advance by the Committee, is intended solely for an international training and reform program for the Liberian armed forces and police.
> SOR/2004-153, s. 3.




**8** No person in Canada shall knowingly import, directly or indirectly, into Canada any rough diamond exported from Liberia after May 6, 2001, whether or not such a diamond originated in Liberia.



**9** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly import, directly or indirectly, into Canada any round logs or timber products originating in Liberia.
> SOR/2003-262, s. 3.




**10** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly
- **(a)** deal directly or indirectly in any property in Canada that is owned or controlled by
	- **(i)** Charles Taylor or his associates,
	- **(ii)** an entity owned or controlled by Charles Taylor or his associates, or
	- **(iii)** a person identified by the Committee of the Security Council who is acting on behalf of, or at the direction of, Charles Taylor or his associates;
- **(b)** enter into or facilitate, directly or indirectly, any financial transaction related to a dealing in property referred to in paragraph (a);
- **(c)** provide any financial services or any other services in respect of any property referred to in paragraph (a); or
- **(d)** make any property — other than the necessaries of life — available, directly or indirectly, to any person referred to in paragraph (a) or for their benefit.
> SOR/2004-153, s. 4.




**11** [Repealed, SOR/2003-262, s. 3]



**12** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly do anything that causes, assists or promotes, or is intended to cause, assist or promote, any act or thing prohibited by sections 3 to 5, 8 and 9.



**13** [Repealed, SOR/2003-262, s. 4]




## Exception
> [SOR/2003-262, s. 5]



**14** No person contravenes these Regulations by doing an act or thing prohibited by any of sections 3 to 5, 8 to 10 and 12 if, before the person does that act or thing, the Minister of Foreign Affairs issues a certificate to the person stating that
- **(a)** the Security Council Resolutions do not intend that such an act or thing be prohibited; or
- **(b)** the act or thing has been approved by the Security Council of the United Nations or by the Committee of the Security Council.
> SOR/2003-262, s. 6; SOR/2004-153, s. 5.




**15** [Repealed, SOR/2003-262, s. 7]




## Coming into Force


**16** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


