> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2001/276.md)

# Regulations Respecting Applications for Permits for Disposal at Sea

**SOR/2001-276**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADIAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md)

Date registered: 1 August 2001

----------

Whereas, pursuant to subsection 332(1) of the [Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[a]</a></sup>, the Minister of the Environment published in the Canada Gazette, Part I, on February 17, 2001 a copy of the proposed Regulations Respecting Applications for Permits for Disposal at Sea under the title Regulations Respecting the Form and Content of an Application for a Permit for Disposal at Sea, substantially in the annexed form, and persons were given an opportunity to file comments with respect to the proposed Regulations or to file a notice of objection requesting that a board of review be established and stating the reasons for the objection;

Therefore, the Minister of the Environment, pursuant to subsection 135(3) of the [Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Regulations Respecting Applications for Permits for Disposal at Sea.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1999, c. 33<br />

Ottawa, August 1, 2001


<p>David Anderson<br />Minister of the Environment<br /></p>




## Permits


**1** An application for a permit referred to in section 127 or 128 of the [Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md) shall be submitted in the form set out in the schedule and shall contain the information relevant to the application that is provided for in the schedule.



**2** The application shall be submitted in writing or in an electronic format that is provided by the Department of the Environment.




## Coming into Force


**3** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 1)**
<table>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**Environment**</td>
<td>**Environnement**</td>
<td>**PERMIT APPLICATION**</td>
<td>Application Identification</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**Canada**</td>
<td>**Canada**</td>
<td>**(DISPOSAL AT SEA)***</td>
<td>(OFFICE USE)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Name:</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Number:</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>Permits are issued in accordance with Division 3 of Part 7 of the [Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2033.md) (CEPA 1999). “Disposal” is defined in subsection 122(1) of the Act. Information provided on this form will be used to evaluate the application for a permit.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following activities are covered by this application (indicate those activities that apply to you):</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>□ 1. Loading for the purpose of disposal</td>
<td>□ 2. Disposal of waste or other matter</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>□ 3. Disposal on ice</td>
<td>□ 4. Other : _________________________</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**SUBSTANCE TO BE DISPOSED OF AT SEA:**</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

#### **PART A — APPLICANT INFORMATION**
<table>
<tr>
<td>**IDENTIFICATION**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**1. NAME OF APPLICANT**</td>
<td>**2. TELEPHONE NO.**</td>
<td>**3. FAX NO.**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**4. ADDRESS**</td>
<td>**5. TYPE OF BUSINESS**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**6. PREVIOUS PERMITS** — List the permit numbers of your previous permits, if any, relevant to this application.</td>
<td>**Permit No.**</td>
<td></td>
<td>**Expiry Date** (year/month)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**7. NAME OF INDIVIDUAL(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR PROPOSED ACTIVITY**</td>
<td>**8. TELEPHONE NO.**</td>
<td>**9. FAX NO.**</td>
<td></td>
<td>**EMAIL ADDRESS**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**10. NAME OF TECHNICAL CONTACT(S) FOR PROPOSED ACTIVITY**</td>
<td>**11. TELEPHONE NO.**</td>
<td>**12. FAX NO.**</td>
<td></td>
<td>**EMAIL ADDRESS**</td>
</tr>
</table>

***** Ce formulaire est aussi disponible en français.


#### **PART B — INFORMATION ON THE PROPOSED ACTIVITY**
<table>
<tr>
<td>**GENERAL INFORMATION**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**13. DESCRIPTION OF THE ACTIVITY** — Give a general description of the proposed activity and its purpose.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**14. SUBSTANCE TO BE DISPOSED OF AT SEA** — Indicate the substance to be disposed of at sea. See the applicable item in Part 1 or 2 of Appendix 1 for details of the information that must be included in your application.</td>
<td>**15.**</td>
<td>**TOTAL QUANTITY** (m<sup>3</sup> or t)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>**PROPOSED TERM OF PERMIT** (maximum 1 year)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**from**</td>
<td>year month day</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>_________________________</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**to**</td>
<td>year month day</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>_________________________</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**17. LOAD SITE(S)** — For dredged or inert inorganic geological material, provide a detailed drawing showing the boundaries of each site to be dredged or excavated.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NAME AND LOCATION OF SITE**</td>
<td>**LATITUDE**</td>
<td>**LONGITUDE**</td>
<td>**QUANTITY TO BE LOADED** (m<sup>3</sup> or t)</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**18. DISPOSAL SITE(S)** — Provide a detailed drawing showing the boundaries of each disposal site.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**DISPOSAL SITE NAME**</td>
<td>**LATITUDE**</td>
<td>**LONGITUDE**</td>
<td>**DEPTH**</td>
<td>**QUANTITY TO BE DISPOSED**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(if any)</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>(m)</td>
<td>(m<sup>3</sup> or t)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Provide an estimate of the movement and dispersion in the water column and on the sea floor of the substance disposed of at sea. In the case of disposal at a new disposal site or disposal on ice, see the applicable item in Appendix 2 for details of additional information that must be included in your application.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**19. ROUTE FROM LOAD SITE TO DISPOSAL SITE** — Attach a map, chart or good reproducible set of drawings that show the location of each load site and each disposal site. If the route is not direct, provide reasons and show the intended route on the map, chart or drawings.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF DOCUMENTS ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**20. EQUIPMENT AND METHODS** — Describe the equipment and methods to be used at each load site and disposal site.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**21. METHODS OF PACKAGING AND CONTAINMENT**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**DISPOSAL SPECIFICATIONS**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**22. MAXIMUM QUANTITY PER DISPOSAL** (m<sup>3</sup> or t)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**23. RATE** (where applicable)</td>
<td>**24. FREQUENCY**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(m<sup>3</sup>/h or t/h)

</td>
<td>(disposals per day, week or month)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**25. SPEED DURING DISPOSAL**</td>
<td>**26. TIME REQUIRED FOR DISCHARGE** (or sinking)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>(min.)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**27. TRACK FOLLOWED DURING DISPOSAL**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**CARRIER INFORMATION**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>— If unknown, this may be provided at a later date but prior to start of operations.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**28. NAME AND ADDRESS OF CARRIER**</td>
<td>**29. TELEPHONE NO.**</td>
<td>**FAX NO.**</td>
<td>**EMAIL ADDRESS**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**30. NAME, TITLE AND ADDRESS OF THE OWNER OF THE SHIP, AIRCRAFT, PLATFORM OR STRUCTURE USED TO CARRY OUT THE DISPOSAL**</td>
<td>**31. TELEPHONE NO.**</td>
<td>**FAX NO.**</td>
<td>**EMAIL ADDRESS**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**32. NAME OF INDIVIDUALS RESPONSIBLE FOR LOADING OR DISPOSAL ON BEHALF OF THE APPLICANT** (including the master)</td>
<td>**33. TELEPHONE NO.**</td>
<td>**FAX NO.**</td>
<td>**EMAIL ADDRESS**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**34. NAME OR NUMBER OF SHIP, AIRCRAFT, PLATFORM OR STRUCTURE USED TO CARRY OUT THE DISPOSAL**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**35. APPROVALS** — List all permits, licenses and reviews, including environmental impact assessments, required by any federal, provincial, territorial, municipal or local agency for the activity described in this application to be carried out.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**ISSUING AGENCY**</td>
<td>**TYPE OF APPROVAL**</td>
<td>**ID NO.**</td>
<td>**DATE OF APPLICATION**</td>
<td>**DATE OF APPROVAL**</td>
<td>**DATE OF REFUSAL**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**36. NOTICE OF APPLICATION** — Attach proof that notice of this application was published in a newspaper of general circulation in the vicinity of the loading and disposal site described in the application.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NEWSPAPER CLIPPING ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NAME OF NEWSPAPER**</td>
<td>**PLACE OF PUBLICATION**</td>
<td>**DATE OF PUBLICATION**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(CITY AND PROVINCE)**</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

#### **PART C — INFORMATION ON ALTERNATIVES TO DISPOSAL AT SEA**
<table>
<tr>
<td>**37. WASTE AUDIT** — Refer to sections 1 to 6 of Schedule 6 to CEPA 1999.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**38. ALTERNATIVES** — Provide a comparative assessment of disposal at sea and the practicable alternatives indicating the following:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) Environmental impact</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) Risk to human health</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(c) Hazards (including accidents) associated with treatment, packaging, transport and disposal</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(d) Economics (including energy costs)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(e) Conflicting use of resources (potential and actual)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### **PART D — HISTORICAL DATA**
<table>
<tr>
<td>**39. PREVIOUS DISPOSAL METHODS** — Describe the methods, if any, other than disposal at sea, that you have previously used to dispose of this type of substance. Indicate dates and locations.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**40. LOAD SITE HISTORY** — For dredged material or inert inorganic geological matter, indicate how each dredging or excavation site was used during the last 10 years.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### **PART E — CHEMICAL, BIOLOGICAL AND PHYSICAL INFORMATION**
<table>
<tr>
<td>**41. CHEMICAL INFORMATION** — Provide a chemical characterization of the substance. Where possible, attach detailed data and methods and the quality assurance and control data and methods. If no data are provided, explain why. See the applicable item in Part 1 or 2 of Appendix 1 for details of additional information that must be included in your application.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**42. BIOLOGICAL INFORMATION** — Provide an assessment of the potential effects of the substance, including toxicity, on living marine resources. Where possible, attach detailed bioassessment data and methods, and the quality assurance and control data and methods. If no data are provided, explain why.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**43. PHYSICAL INFORMATION** — Provide an assessment of the potential of the substance, once disposed of at sea, to cause long-term physical effects. Where possible, attach detailed physical data and methods, and the quality assurance and control data and methods. If no data are provided, explain why. See the applicable item in Part 1 of Appendix I for details of additional information that must be included in your application.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### **PART F — PROXIMITY AND MITIGATION**
<table>
<tr>
<td>**44. PROXIMITY TO FACILITIES** — For dredged or inert inorganic geological material, provide a map for each load site that shows, by means of the symbols indicated below, the location of the major operating and historical facilities in the vicinity of the site. Indicate your sources of information and attach a copy of the information where possible. Where the source is a person, provide the person’s name, address and telephone number.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**SYMBOL**</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**FACILITIES**</td>
<td>**OPERATING**</td>
<td>**HISTORICAL**</td>
<td>**SOURCES OF INFORMATION**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) Oil refineries</td>
<td>(O)</td>
<td>(O*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) Mills (give type)</td>
<td>(M)</td>
<td>(M*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(c) Mines (give type)</td>
<td>(N)</td>
<td>(N*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(d) Sewage outfalls</td>
<td>(S)</td>
<td>(S*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(e) Storm drains/pipes</td>
<td>(P)</td>
<td>(P*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(f) Shipping docks</td>
<td>(D)</td>
<td>(D*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(g) Other industries (specify)</td>
<td>(I)</td>
<td>(I*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(h) Other source of pollution and contamination (specify)</td>
<td>(C)</td>
<td>(C*)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**45. PROXIMITY TO SENSITIVE AREAS** — For a new disposal site, provide a map that shows, by means of the symbols indicated below, the location of all sensitive areas in the vicinity of the disposal site. Indicate your sources of information and attach a copy of the information where possible. Where the source is a person, provide the person’s name, address and telephone number.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**SENSITIVE AREAS**</td>
<td>**SYMBOL**</td>
<td>**SOURCES OF INFORMATION**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(a) Recreational areas</td>
<td>(RA)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(b) Spawning and nursery areas</td>
<td>(SN)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(c) Known migration routes of living marine resources</td>
<td>(MR)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(d) Sport and commercial fishing areas</td>
<td>(FA)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(e) Areas of natural beauty or cultural or historical importance</td>
<td>(BH)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(f) Areas of special scientific or biological importance</td>
<td>(IS)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(g) Aquaculture</td>
<td>(AC)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(h) Shipping lanes</td>
<td>(SL)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(i) Areas of the seafloor having engineering uses (mining, cables, desalination or energy conversion sites)</td>
<td>(EU)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(j) Other areas (describe use e.g. water intakes)</td>
<td>(XZ)</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**NUMBER OF PAGES ATTACHED □**</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**46. MITIGATION** — Indicate measures intended to minimize the environmental, health, navigational and aesthetic impacts during loading, transport and disposal. See the applicable item in Part 2 of Appendix 1 for details of additional information that must be included in your application.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**47. TIME RESTRICTIONS** — If the load site or disposal site will be in the vicinity of spawning areas, migration routes or fishing areas, list the major species involved and the periods during which they are the most sensitive (active time of year).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>Application is hereby made for a permit authorizing the activity described in this application. I certify that I have reviewed the information provided in this application and that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the information is true, complete and accurate. I further certify that I am authorized to undertake the activity or am acting as a duly authorized agent of the applicant.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Date</td>
<td></td>
<td>Name (print)</td>
<td></td>
<td>Signature</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Telephone No.</td>
<td></td>
<td>Fax No.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>Send the completed permit application, together with all documents to be attached, to one of the following addresses.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>For an application made from within Canada:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Regional Director</td>
<td>Regional Director</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Atlantic Region</td>
<td>Quebec Region</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Disposal at Sea Permits</td>
<td>Disposal at Sea Permits</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environmental Protection</td>
<td>Environmental Protection</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environment Canada</td>
<td>Environment Canada</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>45 Alderney Drive</td>
<td>105 McGill Street, 4th floor</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dartmouth, Nova Scotia B2Y 2N6</td>
<td>Montreal, Quebec H2Y 2E7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Regional Director</td>
<td>District Director, Northwest Territories Office</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pacific and Yukon Region</td>
<td>Prairie and Northern Region</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Disposal at Sea Permits</td>
<td>Disposal at Sea Permits</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environmental Protection</td>
<td>Environmental Protection</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environment Canada</td>
<td>Environment Canada</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>224 West Esplanade</td>
<td>Suite 301, 5204 50th Avenue</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>North Vancouver, British Columbia V7M 3H7</td>
<td>Yellowknife, Northwest Territories X1A 1E2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>District Manager, Newfoundland District Office</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Atlantic Region</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Disposal at Sea Permits</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environmental Protection</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environment Canada</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6 Bruce Street</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mount Pearl, Newfoundland A1N 4T3</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>For an application made from outside Canada:</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chief, Marine Environment Division</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Disposal at Sea Permits</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environmental Protection</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Environment Canada</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12th Floor, 351 St. Joseph Blvd.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Hull, Quebec K1A 0H3</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>CANADA</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>


**APPENDIX 1**
## Part 1
## Minimum Information Requirements (By Type of Substance) for Disposal At Sea of Waste and other Matter

<table>
<tr>
<td>Each type of substance requires different information. Provide the required information on the form in the square indicated. Attach additional pages as needed. The Minister of the Environment may require, pursuant to paragraph 127(2)(b) or 128(3)(b) of CEPA 1999, further information for the purpose of complying with Schedule 6 to that Act. In the case of disposal at sea by incineration or thermal degradation as referred to in section 128 of that Act, consult Part 2 of this Appendix. The following numbers represent the item of the permit application form.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**A — DREDGED MATERIAL AND INERT, INORGANIC GEOLOGICAL MATTER**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>**Substance to Be Disposed of at Sea**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Soil or sediment</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Other components (e.g., wood waste)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>**Chemical Information**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Chemistry in respect of the following parameters (soil, sediment, pore water as needed):</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>cadmium</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>mercury</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>total polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>total polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>total organic carbon</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>43</td>
<td>**Physical Information**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Grain size of soil or sediment</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**B — FISHERIES WASTE**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>**Substance to Be Disposed of at Sea**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Species</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Type of waste (e.g., shells, offal)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Source of waste</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**C — SHIPS, AIRCRAFT, PLATFORMS AND OTHER STRUCTURES**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>**Substance to Be Disposed of at Sea**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Name, if applicable</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Location of registry</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Model or official number</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Dimensions</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Weight (dead weight tonnage)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Principal materials of construction</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Name and address of owner</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>State of seaworthiness, if applicable</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>**Chemical Information**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Cargo, fuel and hazardous materials, including chemicals, left on board</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>43</td>
<td>**Physical Information**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Last cargo</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Type of engine, if left on board</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Nature and weight of ballast left on board</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**D — BULKY SUBSTANCES**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>**Substance to Be Disposed of at Sea**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Principal components (composition) of substance</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Dimensions</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Weight (t)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>**Chemical Information**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Contamination by hazardous materials including chemicals</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**E — OTHER SUBSTANCES**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>**Waste or Other Matter to Be Disposed of at Sea (see Schedule 5 to CEPA 1999)**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Principal components (composition) of substance</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Origin of substance and process giving rise to substance</td>
</tr>
</table>


## Part 2
## Minimum Information Requirements for Incineration

<table>
<tr>
<td>In the case of an emergency, referred to in section 128 of CEPA 1999, where incineration is necessary, provide the required information on the permit application form in the square indicated. Attach additional pages as needed. The Minister of the Environment may require, pursuant to paragraph 128(3)(b) of that Act, further information for the purpose of complying with Schedule 6 to that Act. For an activity other than incineration at sea, see Part 1 of this Appendix. The following numbers represent the item of the permit application form.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**ALL SUBSTANCES**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>**Substance to Be Incinerated at Sea**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Principal components (composition) of substance</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Description of the products of combustion and the rate of their production</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Origin of substance and process giving rise to substance</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>**Equipment and Methods**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Description of incineration equipment</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Description of air pollution control equipment</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Description of monitoring and control systems in place</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Stack dimensions</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Combustion temperature</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Retention time</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Combustion and destruction efficiency</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Proposed method of loading and storage</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>**Chemical Information**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Results of the latest tests on stack emissions (for particulate matter, hydrogen chloride (HCI), carbon monoxide (CO), dioxins and furans)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>46</td>
<td>**Mitigation**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Methods of complying with applicable noise by-laws</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Methods of managing ash and minimizing fugitive emissions</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Methods of managing wastewater to comply with provincial or municipal discharge limits</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Methods of preventing hazards to other ships</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Methods of spill response and contingency plans in the event of a spill</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Methods of emergency shutdown</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Qualifications of the operating personnel</td>
</tr>
</table>


**APPENDIX 2**
## Minimum Information Requirements for Disposal At New Disposal Sites and on Ice

<table>
<tr>
<td>Provide the required information on the permit application form in the square indicated. Attach additional pages as needed. The Minister of the Environment may require, pursuant to paragraph 127(2)(b) or 128(3)(b) of CEPA 1999, further information for the purpose of complying with Schedule 6 to that Act. Contact your regional Disposal at Sea Program office prior to collecting data on a new disposal site, as some of the information may already be on file. The following numbers represent the item of the permit application form.</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**A — DISPOSAL AT A NEW DISPOSAL SITE**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>**Disposal Site(s)**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Bathymetry</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Sediment transport</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Salinity</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Current flow</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Chemistry in respect of the following parameters (sediment, pore water as needed):</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>cadmium</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>mercury</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>total polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)</td>
</tr>
</table>

<table>
<tr>
<td>**B — DISPOSAL ON ICE**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>**Disposal Site(s)**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Area of ice to be used as the disposal site</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Thickness of ice at the proposed disposal site (m)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Estimated date of ice breakup (year/month/day)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Estimated location of ice breakup (lat./long.)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Estimated time from breakup to melting (days)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Estimated depth of water at disposal site (m)</td>
</tr>
</table>


