> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/81/1034.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Apples Marketed in 1980-81

**SOR/81-1034**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 10 December 1981

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to sections 2, 8.2, 10 and 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of apples marketed in 1980-81.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Apple Stabilization Regulations, 1980.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***apples*** means apples grown in Canada in the calendar year 1980 and sold by a producer on or before June 30, 1981; (*pommes*)

***Board***means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing apples in Canada. (*producteur*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Apples are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purposes of determining the prescribed price of apples for the calendar year 1980, the percentage of the base price of apples for that year is hereby prescribed to be 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of apples for the calendar year 1980 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 90 per cent of the base price of apples; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** Subject to section 7, the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers of $0.0177 per lb. of apples that are sold as fresh fruit or for processing, in excess of 25,000 lbs. of apples, on a maximum of 1,000,000 lbs. of apples per producer.



**7** Where producers are carrying on business in a production unit, as determined by the Board, the Board may make payments in respect of each producer in the production unit, but such payments shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the maximum payable by the Board under section 6 to or for the benefit of three producers.


