> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/81/122.md)

# General Import Permit No. 7

**SOR/81-122**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 10 February 1981

----------

The Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, pursuant to section 10 of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby cancels General Import Permit No. 7, C.R.C., c. 635, and, pursuant to section 5 of the Import Permit Regulations<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup>, hereby issues the annexed General Import Permit No. 7 in substitution therefor.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: as enacted by SOR/79-5, 1979 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 8<br />

Dated at Ottawa, this 4th day of February, 1981


<p>HERB GRAY<br />*Minister of Industry,*<br />*Trade and Commerce*<br /></p>




## Short Title


**1** This Permit may be cited as the Import of Turkeys and Turkey Products Permit.




## General


**2** Any person may, under the authority of this General Import Permit, import into Canada from any country
- **(a)** one turkey, or
- **(b)** turkey parts not exceeding 10 kg
for each non-commercial importation, and
- **(c)** turkey poults, and
- **(d)** turkey contained in jars or cans.
> SI/82-116, Sch. II, s. 1; SI/83-185, s. 1.




**3** Where completion and validation of a Customs entry form is required in respect of any turkeys that are imported under the authority of this General Import Permit, that form shall be endorsed “Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 7” or “*Importé en vertu de la Licence générale d’importation n<sup>o</sup> 7*”.



**4** [Revoked, SI/83-185, s. 2]


