> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/81/707.md)

# Regulations Respecting Zoning at Inuvik Airport

**SOR/81-707**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AERONAUTICS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)

Date registered: 4 September 1981

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 6 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md), is pleased hereby to approve the annexed Regulations respecting zoning at Inuvik Airport made by the Minister of Transport.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Inuvik Airport Zoning Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** 

- **(1)** In these Regulations,

***airport*** means the Inuvik Airport, in the vicinity of Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories; (*aéroport*)

***airport reference point*** means the point described in Part I of the schedule; (*point de repère de l’aéroport*)

***approach surface*** means an imaginary inclined plane that extends upward and outward from each end of a strip, which approach surface is more particularly described in Part III of the schedule; (*surface d’approche*)

***Minister*** means the Minister of Transport; (*ministre*)

***outer surface*** means an imaginary surface located above and in the immediate vicinity of the airport, which outer surface is more particularly described in Part IV of the schedule; (*surface extérieure*)

***strip*** means the rectangular portion of the landing area of the airport including the runway prepared for the take-off and landing of aircraft in a particular direction, which strip is more particularly described in Part V of the schedule; (*bande*)

***transitional surface*** means an imaginary inclined plane that extends upward and outward from the lateral limits of a strip and its approach surfaces, which transitional surface is more particularly described in Part VI of the schedule. (*surface de transition*)

- **(2)** For the purposes of these Regulations, the assigned elevation of the airport reference point is deemed to be 60.04 m above sea level.




## Application


**3** These Regulations apply to all the lands, including public road allowances, adjacent to or in the vicinity of the airport, that consist of
- **(a)** the lands within, and
- **(b)** the lands directly under that portion of an approach surface that extends beyond
the outer limits described in Part II of the schedule.




## General


**4** No person shall erect or construct on any land to which these Regulations apply any building, structure or object or any addition to any existing building, structure or object, the highest point of which will exceed in elevation at the location of that point any
- **(a)** approach surface;
- **(b)** outer surface; or
- **(c)** transitional surface.




## Natural Growth


**5** Where an object of natural growth on any land to which these Regulations apply exceeds in elevation any of the surfaces referred to in paragraphs 4(a) to (c), the Minister may make a direction that the owner or occupier of the land on which that object is growing remove the excessive growth.




## Disposal of Waste


**6** No owner or occupier of any land to which these Regulations apply shall permit such land or any part of it to be used for the disposal of any waste edible by or attractive to birds.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(ss. 2 and 3)**

**PART I** 
## Description of the Airport Reference Point

The airport reference point is a point coincidental with coordinate control survey monument No. 139302 (c.c.m. 32), located at latitude 68°18′18.7789″, longitude 133°29′05.2246″.



**PART II** 
## Description of the Outer Limits of Land

The following described boundaries are the outer limits of lands:

COMMENCING at a point in the southern boundary of Lot 3, Group 1355, Plan 43574 (C.L.S.R.) 218 (L.T.O.), where it is intersected by the circumference of a circle having a radius of 4 000 m and centered at the airport reference point as described in Part I of the schedule; THENCE, in a southwesterly direction following the circumference of the said circle clockwise to the point where it intersects the northern boundary of Lot 3, Group 1355, Plan 43574 (C.L.S.R.) 218 (L.T.O.); as said outer limits are shown on Department of Transport Inuvik Airport Zoning Plan No. E.1552.





**PART III** 
## Description of the Approach Surfaces

The approach surfaces, shown on Department of Transport Inuvik Airport Zoning Plan No. E.1552, are surfaces abutting each end of the strip associated with the runway designated 04-22 and are described as follows:

**(a)** a surface abutting the end of the strip associated with runway approach 04, and



**(b)** a surface abutting the end of the strip associated with runway approach 22,



consisting of an inclined plane having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 50 m measured horizontally rising to an imaginary horizontal line drawn at right angles to the projected centre line of the strip, 300 m measured vertically above the elevation at the end of the strip, 15 000 m measured horizontally from the end of the strip, the outer ends of the imaginary horizontal line being 2 400 m from the projected centre line.





**PART IV** 
## Description of the Outer Surface

The outer surface, shown on Department of Transport Inuvik Airport Zoning Plan No. E.1552, is an imaginary surface located at a common plane established at a constant elevation of 45 m above the assigned elevation of the airport reference point, except where the common plane is less than 9 m above the surface of the ground, the imaginary surface is located 9 m above the surface of the ground.



**PART V** 
## Description of the Strip

The strip, shown on Department of Transport Inuvik Airport Zoning Plan No. E.1552, is described as follows:

the strip associated with runway 04-22 is 300 m in width, 150 m being on each side of the centre line of the runway and 1 948.8 m in length.





**PART VI** 
## Description of Each Transitional Surface

Each transitional surface, shown on Department of Transport Inuvik Airport Zoning Plan No. E.1552, is a surface consisting of an inclined plane having a ratio of 1 m measured vertically to 7 m measured horizontally at right angles to the centre line and centre line produced of the strip and extending upward and outward from the lateral limits of the strip and its approach surfaces to an intersection with the outer surface.



