> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/90/149.md)

# Order Respecting the Designation of the Criminal Operational Intelligence Records, No. CMP/P-PU-015, as an Exempt Personal Information Bank

**SOR/90-149**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PRIVACY ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-21.md)

Date registered: 22 February 1990

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Solicitor General of Canada and the President of the Treasury Board, is pleased hereby, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Privacy Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-21.md), to revoke the Exempt Personal Information Bank Order, No. 13 (RCMP), made by Order in Council P.C. 1985-864 of March 14, 1985<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-90-149_e_hq_6118'>[*]</a></sup>, and to make the annexed Order respecting the designation of the Criminal Operational Intelligence Records, No. CMP/P-PU-015, as an exempt personal information bank, in substitution therefor.

<a name='fn_SOR-90-149_e_hq_6118'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/85-253, 1985 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1588<br />




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Exempt Personal Information Bank Order, No. 13 (RCMP).




## General


**2** Criminal Operational Intelligence Records, No. CMP/P-PU-015, a personal information bank under the control of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, is hereby designated as an exempt bank on the basis of section 22 of the [Privacy Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-21.md).



**3** For the purposes of paragraph 18(3)(b) of the [Privacy Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-21.md), the laws concerned, in relation to those files that are contained in the exempt bank referred to in section 2 that consist predominantly of personal information described in subparagraph 22(1)(a)(ii) of that Act, are the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), the [Excise Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-14.md), the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md), the [Immigration and Refugee Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2027.md), the [Income Tax Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(5th%20Supp.).md), the [Controlled Drugs and Substances Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2019.md) and the [Security of Information Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/O/O-5.md).
> 2001, c. 27, s. 273; c. 41, s. 39.



