> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/90/399.md)

# Order Respecting the Accelerated Reduction or Removal of Certain Customs Duties Under the Customs Tariff as a Consequence of Concessions Granted Pursuant to the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement

**SOR/90-399**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CUSTOMS TARIFF](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)

Date registered: 28 June 1990

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to sections 62<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-90-399_e_hq_4642'>[*]</a></sup> and 136<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-90-399_e_hq_4643'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-90-399_e_hq_4644'>[***]</a></sup>, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Order respecting the accelerated reduction or removal of certain customs duties under the Customs Tariff as a consequence of concessions granted pursuant to the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement.

<a name='fn_SOR-90-399_e_hq_4642'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1988, c. 65, s. 98<br />

<a name='fn_SOR-90-399_e_hq_4643'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1989, c. 18, s. 15<br />

<a name='fn_SOR-90-399_e_hq_4644'><sup>***</sup></a>: R.S., c. 41 (3rd Supp.)<br />




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Customs Duties Accelerated Reduction Order, No. 3.




## General


**2** The rates of customs duties on certain goods referred to in the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) are reduced or removed in the manner set out in the schedule to this Order.




## Coming into Force


**3** The schedule to this Order is effective April 1, 1990.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Sections 2 and 3)**
**1** Schedule I to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) is amended by revoking tariff item Nos. 9032.10.10<sup><a href='#fn1_e'>[1]</a></sup> and 9032.10.90<sup><a href='#fn1_e'>[1]</a></sup> thereof and substituting the following therefor:

<a name='fn1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/90-301, 1990 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 2213<br />
<table>
<tr>
<th>Tariff Item</th>
<th>Description of Goods</th>
<th>Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff</th>
<th>General Preferential Tariff</th>
<th>United States Tariff</th>
<th>Staging Category</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>“9032.10</td>
<td>—Thermostats</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9032.10.10</td>
<td>———Of a kind used with the goods classified under the tariff items enumerated in Schedule VI to this Act</td>
<td>9.2%</td>
<td>2.5%</td>
<td>6%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1991</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>4%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1992</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1993</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Free</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9032.10.90</td>
<td>———Other</td>
<td>10%</td>
<td>6.5%</td>
<td>6%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1991</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>4%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1992</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>2%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1993</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Free”</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>



**2** Schedule II to the said Act is amended by revoking code 9650<sup><a href='#fn1_e'>[1]</a></sup> thereof and substituting the following therefor:
<table>
<tr>
<th>Code</th>
<th>Provision</th>
<th>Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff</th>
<th>General Preferential Tariff</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>“9650</td>
<td>Prune juice concentrate of not less than 58° Brix of tariff item No. 2009.80.12;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Other fruit juice concentrates of not less than 58° Brix of tariff item No. 2009.80.19;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Concentrates, not containing grape or tomato juice, nor more than 5% apple juice by volume, of not less than 40° Brix for mixtures containing pineapple juice, and otherwise not less than 58° Brix, whether or not containing fruit pulp or purée, of tariff item No. 2009.90.30;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Acetylene of tariff item No. 2901.29.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dibromoethyl dibromocyclohexane and Hexabromocyclododecane of tariff item No. 2903.59.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dibromoneopentyl glycol of tariff item No. 2905.50.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2907.29.00:4,4′-Methylene bis(2,6-di-t-butylphenol),

1,3,5-Trimethyl-2,4,6-tris(3,5-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxybenzyl) benzene,

2,2′-Methylene bis(4-ethyl-6-tert butylphenol),

2,2′-Methylene bis(4-methyl-6-tert butylphenol),

Pyrogallic acid;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) of tariff item No. 2909.19.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2909.30.00:5-Chloro-2-nitroanisole,

6-Chloro-3-nitro-p-dimethoxybenzene,

Dimethyl diphenyl ether,

Decabromodiphenyl oxide,

Octabromodiphenyl oxide,

Tetradecabromodiphenoxybenzene;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Methyl isoamyl ketone (5-methyl-2-hexanone) and 2,3-Butanedione of tariff item No. 2914.19.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2915.90.00:Dodecanoic acid (lauric acid),

Stannous octates,

9-Fluorenylmethyl chloroformate;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Methacryloyl chloride of tariff item No. 2916.19.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2916.39.00:Ibuprofen (2-(4-isobutylphenyl) propionic acid),

t-Butylperoxybenzoate (t-butyl perbenzoate),

Benzoic anhydride,

4-Chloro-3-nitrobenzoic acid,

m-Chloroperoxybenzoic acid,

p-Nitrobenzoyl chloride,

2-Nitro-m-toluic acid,

3-Nitro-o-toluic acid;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Adipic acid of tariff item No. 2917.12.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2917.19.00:Fumaric acid,

Oxalyl chloride,

Methyl oxalyl chloride,

1,12-Dodecanedioic acid;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ditridecyl phthalate of tariff item No. 2917.34.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2917.39.00:1,2,4-Benzenetricarboxylic acid,

1,2-dianhydride (trimellitic anhydride),

Naphthalic anhydride,

Phthalic acid,

4-Sulpho-1,8-naphthalic anhydride,

Isophthalic acid,

Tetrabromophthalic anhydride,

1-(1-Hydroxyethyloxyethyl)2-(2-hydroxypropyl)-3,4,5, 6-tetrabromophthalate,

Di-t-butyl diperoxyphthalate;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2918.19.90:Malic acid,

Benzilic acid,

Benzilic acid methyl ester;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2918.29.00:Tetrakis (methylene (3,5-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxy cinnamate)) methane,

Octadecyl-3-(3,5-di-tert-butyl-4-hydroxyphenyl) propionate,

2,3-Cresotic acid,

m-Hydroxybenzoic acid,

2-Hydroxybenzoic acid, calcium salt,

l-Hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid,

2-Hydroxy-l-naphthoic acid,

l-Hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, phenyl ester,

Alpha-resorcylic acid,

Gamma-resorcylic acid,

5-Sulphosalicylic acid,

Gentisic acid,

Hydroxycinnamic acid and its salts,

p-Hydroxybenzoic acid,

Gallic acid;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dioctyl diphenylamine and Nitrodiphenylamine of tariff item No. 2921.44.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nadolol of tariff item No. 2922.50.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2925.19.00:Ethylenebis (tetrabromophthalimide),

Ethylenebis (dibromonorbornenedi-carboximide),

N-(9-Fluorenylmethoxycarbonyloxy) succinimide;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2931.00.90:Monobutyltin trichloride,

Methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl,

Organo-silicon compounds,

Organo-phosphines,

Benzeneboronic acid (phenylboron dihydroxide),

Sodium tetraphenyl boron;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2932.29.00:2-Beta, 6-alpha-di-methyl-8-alpha-(2-methyl-l-oxobutoxy)mevinic acid lactone (lovastatin),

Isoascorbic acid (erythorbic acid),

Isoascorbic acid sodium salt (sodium erythorbate);

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2932.90.00:Doxepin,

Ethyl maltol,

Maltol;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>N,N′-carbonyldiimidazole of tariff item No. 2933.29.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Terfenadine of tariff item No. 2933.39.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2933.59.00:5-Dimethoxytrityl-N-benzoyl-2-deoxyadenosine,

5-Dimethoxytrityl-N-benzoyl-2-deoxyguanosine,

5-Dimethoxytrityl-N-isobutyl-2-deoxyguanosine,

5-Dimethoxytrityl-thymidine,

2′,3′-Dideoxyinosine,

2′,3′-Dideoxycytidine,

2′,3′-Dideoxyadenosine;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2933.90.00:2(2′-Hydroxy-3′,5′-di-tert-amylphenyl) benzotriazole,

2-(Benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis (methylethyl-l-phenylethyl)phenol,

2-(2′-Hydroxy-5′-methylphenyl) benzotriazole;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2934.20.00:2-Mercaptobenzothiazyl disulphide or 2,2-thiobisbenzothiazole disulphide,

2-Mercaptobenzothiazole,

N-(Oxydiethylene)benzothiazole-2-sulphenamide,

2-Mercaptobenzothiazole sodium salt (2-benzothiazolethiol sodium salt),

N-tert-Butylbenzothiazole-2-sulphenamide,

N-Cyclohexylbenzothiazole-2-sulphenamide,

2-(Morpholinothio)benzothiazole;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3-Methyl-2-oxazolidone of tariff item No. 2934.90.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2935.00.00:P,p′-oxybis (benzenesulphonylhydrazide),

N-Butylbenzenesulphonamide,

Acetazolamide,

Methazolamide;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mixtures of vitamins of tariff item No. 2936.90.00 for use in enriching flour;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 2941.90.00:Polymixin b sulphate,

Neomycin sulphate,

Lasalocid sodium,

Nystatin;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 3004.90.99:Antibacterial cream containing sulfanilamide as the single active ingredient,

Antihistaminic agents in tablet form containing terfenadine as the single active ingredient,

Anthelmintic based on pyrantel pamoate or morantel tartarate for treating internal parasites in horses and in dairy or feed cattle,

Antimicrobial ointments other than sulfonamides for the treatment of vaginal yeast infections in animals,

Laxatives for animals,

Amino-caproic acid for human use;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Toners and developers for copiers and electrostatic toner dispersants of tariff item No. 3707.90.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Caustic alkali liquid (black liquor) of tariff item No. 3804.00.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Fluxes and other auxiliary preparations for soldering, brazing or welding, of tariff item No. 3810.90.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The following of tariff item No. 3823.90.90:Gaseous mixtures of hydrogen sulphide in nitrogen,

Gaseous mixtures of nitric oxide in nitrogen,

Phosphonium salts;

</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Polyvinyl butyral of tariff item No. 3905.90.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Polysulphides and polysulphones of tariff item No. 3911.90.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nursing nipples, infant pacifiers and transparent face masks or visors for ice hockey of tariff item No. 3926.90.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nursing nipples and infant pacifiers of tariff item No. 4014.90.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dog or cat collars of tariff item No. 4201.00.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Birch plywood doorskins of tariff item No. 4412.12.10 or 4412.12.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Finger-jointed builders’ joinery and edge-glued lumber of tariff item No. 4418.90.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Finger-jointed lumber and edge-glued lumber of tariff item No. 4421.90.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>High tenacity nylon filament yarns, singles, flat, fully drawn, with producer twist not exceeding 40 turns per metre, and high tenacity aramid filament yarns, of tariff item No. 5402.10.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>High tenacity polyester filament yarns, singles, flat, fully drawn, with producer twist not exceeding 40 turns per metre, of tariff item No. 5402.20.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Partially oriented nylon filament yarns, other nylon filament yarns and aramid filament yarns other than partially oriented, of tariff item No. 5402.41.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Polyester filament yarns, flat, fully drawn, with producer twist not exceeding 40 turns per metre, of tariff item No. 5402.43.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Yarns, solely of spandex, singles, untwisted, not on beams, and polytetrafluoroethylene filament yarns, of tariff item No. 5402.49.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Aramid filament yarns of tariff item No. 5402.51.00 or 5402.61.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Polytetrafluoroethylene filament yarns of tariff item No. 5402.59.00 or 5402.69.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Fabrics of nylon filament yarns of tariff item No. 5407.41.00 for typewriter or computer ribbons;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Aramid staple fibres of tariff item No. 5503.10.00 or 5506.10.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Polytetrafluoroethylene staple fibres, vinyon staple fibres and polybenzimidazole (PBI) staple fibres of tariff item No. 5503.90.00 or 5506.90.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Offset printing blankets of tariff item No. 5911.10.11;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Packing yarns with fibreglass cores, whether or not incorporating a metal wire, covered with a textile wrapper, of tariff item No. 5911.90.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ice hockey pants and shells for ice hockey pants of tariff item No. 6114.30.00 or 6210.40.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ice hockey gloves of tariff item No. 6116.93.00 or 6216.00.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Railway track switch heaters and parts thereof of tariff item No. 7322.90.99;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Handles incorporating lug sockets, of tariff item No. 8204.11.00, for mechanical automobile jacks;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Push button combination door locks of tariff item No. 8301.40.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pumps, other than controlled volume reciprocating pumps, of tariff item No. 8413.19.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Log loaders of tariff item No. 8428.90.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vertical turret lathes of tariff item No. 8458.99.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Key cutting machinery of tariff item No. 8460.90.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Barrels and cylinders and parts thereof for plastic processing machines of tariff item No. 8477.90.20;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Camshafts and crankshafts of tariff item No. 8483.10.90, other than those designed for use solely or principally with spark-ignition internal combustion piston engines or rotary engines;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Food processors and food grinders of tariff item No. 8509.40.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Unrecorded video tapes, of a width of 1.9 cm or more, of tariff item No. 8523.13.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Antennas and parts thereof of tariff item No. 8529.10.90 for land mobile transceivers, cellular telephones or radio and television transmitters;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Non-amphibious all terrain vehicles, of a weight less than 341 kg, having fewer than six wheels and designed to carry only one passenger, of tariff item No. 8703.21.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Personal watercraft, of an overall length not exceeding 5 m, inboard, water-jet driven, designed to be operated in a sitting on, standing or kneeling position, rather than sitting in as in conventional vessels, of tariff item No. 8903.92.00;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dental lamps of tariff item No. 9405.40.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Snowshoes and parts and accessories thereof of tariff item No. 9506.99.90;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Closed-face spin casting fishing reels of tariff item No. 9507.30.00</td>
<td>
- N/A
- Free
- UST”</td>
<td>N/A</td>
</tr>
</table>



**3** Schedule II to the English version of the said Act is further amended by revoking code 9652<sup><a href='#fn1_e'>[1]</a></sup> thereof and substituting the following therefor:
<table>
<tr>
<th>Code</th>
<th>Provision</th>
<th>Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff</th>
<th>General Preferential Tariff</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>“9652</td>
<td>Power-operated appliances of tariff item No. 8481.80.99;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Parts of tariff item No. 8481.90.10 for the goods of tariff item No. 8481.10.99 or 8481.80.20 or for the power-operated appliances of tariff item No. 8481.80.99;</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Parts of tariff item No. 8481.90.40 for the goods of tariff item No. 8481.10.91</td>
<td>
- N/A
- Free
- UST”</td>
<td>N/A</td>
</tr>
</table>



**4** Schedule II to the said Act is further amended by revoking code 9666<sup><a href='#fn2_e'>[2]</a></sup> thereof and substituting the following therefor:

<a name='fn2_e'><sup>2</sup></a>: SOR/90-379, 1990 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 2721<br />
<table>
<tr>
<th>Code</th>
<th>Provision</th>
<th>Most-Favoured-Nation Tariff</th>
<th>General Preferential Tariff</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>“9666</td>
<td>Fabrics, other than knitted, of tariff item No. 5903.10.10, 5903.20.10, 5903.90.11, 5903.90.12, 5903.90.19, 5906.99.10 or 5907.00.12, for use as decorative outer coverings in the manufacture of upholstered furniture</td>
<td>N/A</td>
<td>N/A</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after April 1, 1990</td>
<td>13.5%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>UST</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1991</td>
<td>9%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>UST</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1992</td>
<td>4.5%</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>UST</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On and after January 1, 1993</td>
<td>Free</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>UST”</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>




