> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/90/530.md)

# Order Respecting the Marketing in Interprovincial and Export Trade of Milk Produced in Manitoba

**SOR/90-530**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 7 August 1990

----------

The Manitoba Milk Producers’ Marketing Board, pursuant to section 3<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Manitoba Milk Order](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/101-200/C.R.C.,%20c.%20155.md), C.R.C., c. 155, made pursuant to section 2 of the [Agricultural Products Marketing Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md), hereby makes the annexed Order respecting the marketing in interprovincial and export trade of milk produced in Manitoba.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/90-271, 1990 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 1998<br />

Winnipeg, Manitoba, August 1, 1990




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Manitoba Milk Marketing (Interprovincial and Export) Order.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order,

***producer***means a person who produces milk in the Province of Manitoba. (*producteur*)




## Application


**3** 

- **(1)** This Order applies to the marketing of milk in interprovincial and export trade, and in relation to persons and property situated in the Province of Manitoba.

- **(2)** This Order does not apply to the marketing of milk in a container that has a capacity of 20 litres or less.




## Purchase and Sale


**4** No person shall buy or purchase milk except from or through the Commodity Board.



**5** No producer shall sell milk except to or through the Commodity Board.




## Payment to Producers


**6** 

- **(1)** The Commodity Board may conduct pools for the distribution of all moneys received from the sale of milk by producers to or through the Commodity Board.

- **(2)** The Commodity Board shall, after deducting all necessary and proper disbursements and expenses and after making allowances for reserves, distribute the remainder of the moneys received from the sale of milk in such manner that each producer receives a share thereof relative to the quantity, quality and grade of the milk delivered to the Commodity Board by the producer.

- **(3)** The Commodity Board may make an initial payment to a producer on delivery of milk by the producer to the Commodity Board and may make subsequent payments until that producer has received the remainder of that producer’s share.




## Transportation


**7** 

- **(1)** No person shall transport milk except to the Commodity Board or to a person retained by the Commodity Board to transport milk.

- **(2)** No person shall deliver milk for transport except to a person retained by the Commodity board to transport milk.


