> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2002/164.md)

# National Capital Commission Animal Regulations

**SOR/2002-164**

Enabling authorities: 
- [NATIONAL CAPITAL ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/N/N-4.md)

Date registered: 25 April 2002

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Canadian Heritage, pursuant to subsection 20(1) of the [National Capital Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/N/N-4.md), hereby makes the annexed National Capital Commission Animal Regulations.




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Capital Pathway*** means a mixed use recreational pathway on Commission land that has a paved or stone dust surface and has been marked by the Commission at access points maintained by the Commission and at intersections with signs or surface markings bearing the pictogram in the form set out in Schedule 2. (*sentier de la capitale*)

***Commission land*** means real property or immovables owned by the Commission or under the control and management of the Commission. (*terrain de la Commission*)

***domestic animal*** means an animal of a species of vertebrates, other than fish, that has been domesticated by humans so as to live in a tame condition and depend on humans for survival. (*animal domestique*)

***keeper*** means the owner of an animal or the person having charge of the animal, except where the owner or the person is a minor, in which case ***keeper*** means the father or mother of the minor or another adult responsible for the minor. (*responsable*)

***leased agricultural property*** means Commission land, of which the Commission is the lessor, that is leased for commercial or non-commercial agricultural purposes, and includes any residence on the land. (*propriété agricole louée*)

***leased land*** means leased agricultural property or leased residential property. (*terrain loué*)

***leased residential property*** means Commission land, of which the Commission is the lessor, that is leased strictly for residential purposes. (*propriété résidentielle louée*)

***off-leash area*** means an area on unleased land referred to in section 9. (*aire pour animaux en liberté*)

***organized event*** means a temporary activity or a seasonal program that is organized or authorized by the Commission. (*événement organisé*)

***peace officer*** means
- **(a)** a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police who is a peace officer;
- **(b)** a person who is employed by the Commission as a conservation officer and who has been designated as a peace officer under paragraph 7(1)(d) of the [Royal Canadian Mounted Police Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-10.md); or
- **(c)** a police officer of the municipality in which the Commission land is situated. (*agent de la paix*)

***picnic area*** means an area that contains a group of picnic tables that are permanently affixed or chained to the ground, or that is identified by signs as a picnic area. (*terrain de pique-nique*)

***shoreline*** means the high-water mark. (*ligne de rive*)

***trail*** means a mixed use trail, other than a Capital Pathway, on Commission land that has been marked by the Commission at entry points and intersections with signs bearing the trail name or number or a pictogram. (*sentier*)

***unleased land*** means Commission land that is not subject to a lease between the Commission as lessor and another party as lessee. (*terrain non loué*)




## Application


**2** These Regulations apply
- **(a)** on all unleased land; and
- **(b)** on all leased land that is subject to
	- **(i)** a lease entered into on or after the day on which these Regulations come into force that states that the lease is subject to these Regulations as amended from time to time, or
	- **(ii)** a lease that has been renewed or amended on or after the day on which these Regulations come into force that states that the lease, as renewed or amended, is subject to these Regulations as amended from time to time.



**3** 

- **(1)** Sections 4 to 8 and subsection 10(2) do not apply to
	- **(a)** peace officers in the exercise of their duties;
	- **(b)** Commission employees in the exercise of their duties; or
	- **(c)** persons who are assisting a peace officer or a Commission employee in the exercise of the officer’s or employee’s duties.

- **(2)** Subsections 6(1) and (2), section 8 and paragraph 20(1)(a) do not apply to a blind or visually impaired keeper of a guide dog, or to a physically disabled keeper of an assistance dog, while they are being accompanied by that dog.




## Unleased Land — Prohibitions and Restrictions



### General


**4** 

- **(1)** No person shall have an animal other than a domestic animal on unleased land.

- **(2)** No person shall have more than two domestic animals on unleased land at any one time.

- **(3)** The prohibition in subsection (1) shall not have the effect of preventing the Commission from having, on Commission lands, wildlife indigenous to those lands.




### Domestic Animals Other Than Hoofed Animals


**5** Sections 6 to 9 apply only to keepers of domestic animals other than hoofed animals.



**6** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), no person shall have a domestic animal on unleased land except in the locations set out in Schedule 1.

- **(2)** In the locations set out in Schedule 1, no person shall have a domestic animal in any of the following areas:
	- **(a)** a beach and its immediate environs, the boundaries of which are clearly identified by signs;
	- **(b)** a building;
	- **(c)** the campground located at LeBreton Flats;
	- **(d)** a picnic area, food concession area or outdoor restaurant;
	- **(e)** a play structure area;
	- **(f)** subject to subsection (3), within three metres of the shoreline of a body of water of a permanent nature;
	- **(g)** an area in which an organized event is being held; or
	- **(h)** any area of unleased land that is marked, in accordance with subsection 27(1), by signs as an area where domestic animals are prohibited.

- **(3)** The prohibition contained in paragraph (2)(f) does not apply to the Queen Elizabeth Driveway corridor land or the Colonel By Drive corridor land.

- **(4)** No person shall have a domestic animal referred to in section 5 in any area of unleased land that is marked, in accordance with subsection 27(2), by signs as a location where hoofed animals are permitted.

- **(5)** Despite any other provision of these Regulations, the keeper of a domestic animal is authorized to cross, with their animal, any area of unleased land where such an animal is otherwise prohibited under these Regulations if the animal is restrained in accordance with subsection 7(1) and the animal is on a Capital Pathway or trail where the presence of that animal is permitted.



**7** 

- **(1)** No person shall have a domestic animal on unleased land where domestic animals are permitted unless the animal is restrained in one of the following ways:
	- **(a)** subject to subsection (2), it is restrained on a leash or by the handle of a harness
		- **(i)** that is held by a person, or is securely attached to an object that cannot be displaced by the animal, and
		- **(ii)** that is not more than two metres (6.5 feet) long;
	- **(b)** it is in a container from which it cannot escape; or
	- **(c)** it is in a vehicle.

- **(2)** No person shall, on unleased land,
	- **(a)** ski, rollerskate or rollerblade while having a domestic animal on a leash; or
	- **(b)** ride a bicycle, scooter or any other non-motorized vehicle — other than a wheelchair — while having a domestic animal on a leash or while having a domestic animal attached in some manner to the vehicle.



**8** Every keeper of a domestic animal shall immediately pick up any fecal matter deposited by the animal and shall remove the matter from unleased land.



**9** 

- **(1)** Despite any other provision of these Regulations, the keeper of a domestic animal may allow the animal to run free on a portion of unleased land that the Commission has marked by signs as an off-leash area.

- **(2)** The keeper of a domestic animal shall have the animal under control within the off-leash area.

- **(3)** For the purposes of subsection (2), the keeper of a domestic animal is considered to have the animal under control if the animal, following a voice command or hand signal given by the keeper, obeys immediately and, as the case may be,
	- **(a)** stops attacking or chasing another animal or a person;
	- **(b)** stops any display of aggression toward another animal or a person;
	- **(c)** stops any behaviour toward a person that a reasonable person would find harassing or disturbing; and
	- **(d)** comes to and stays with the keeper.

- **(4)** Despite any other provision of these Regulations, the keeper of a domestic animal is authorized, for the purpose of accessing an off-leash area, to cross, with their animal, any parking lot of the Commission adjacent to the area if the animal is restrained in accordance with subsection 7(1).




### Hoofed Animals


**10** 

- **(1)** This section applies only to keepers of hoofed animals.

- **(2)** No person shall have a hoofed animal on any area of unleased land except in a location that the Commission has, in accordance with subsection 27(2), marked by signs as a location where hoofed animals are permitted.

- **(3)** No person shall have a hoofed animal in a location referred to in subsection (2) unless it is restrained in one of the following ways:
	- **(a)** it is restrained by reins that are held by a person;
	- **(b)** it is restrained by a lead
		- **(i)** that is held by a person, or is securely attached to an object that cannot be displaced by the animal, and
		- **(ii)** that is not more than two metres (6.5 feet) long; or
	- **(c)** it is in a container from which it cannot escape.

- **(4)** Despite any other provision of these Regulations, the keeper of a hoofed animal is authorized to cross, with their hoofed animal, any area of unleased land where a hoofed animal is otherwise prohibited under these Regulations if the animal is restrained in accordance with subsection (3) and the animal is on a trail where the presence of that animal is permitted.




### Domestic Animals


**11** Sections 12 to 14 apply to keepers of all domestic animals.



**12** 

- **(1)** No person shall use a domestic animal in an organized event on unleased land without the authorization of the Commission under subsection 28(1).

- **(2)** No person shall use a domestic animal to pull a sled, wagon or other conveyance on unleased land except as part of an organized event in respect of which an authorization has been issued by the Commission under subsection 28(1).



**13** The keeper of a domestic animal shall not allow the animal, while on unleased land, to
- **(a)** chase, attack, bite or injure a person or another animal or fight with another animal;
- **(b)** damage property of the Commission;
- **(c)** make noise for more than 15 minutes between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; or
- **(d)** drink from, or get on or into, an ornamental or drinking fountain, or a body of water of a permanent nature surrounded by Commission land.



**14** The keeper of a domestic animal shall not, on unleased land, leave the animal unattended in a vehicle or container in excessive heat or cold that could endanger the health of the animal.




## Leased Land — Prohibitions and Restrictions



### General


**15** 

- **(1)** No lessee shall have an animal other than a domestic animal on leased land.

- **(2)** The keeper of a domestic animal shall not allow the animal, while on leased land, to
	- **(a)** chase, attack, bite or injure a person or another animal or fight with another animal;
	- **(b)** damage property of the Commission; or
	- **(c)** enter any body of water of a permanent nature surrounded by Commission land or drink from that body of water.

- **(3)** The keeper of a domestic animal shall not, on leased land, leave the animal unattended in a vehicle or container in excessive heat or cold that could endanger the health of the animal.

- **(4)** The keeper of a domestic animal shall not, on leased land, have the animal within three metres of the shoreline of any body of water of a permanent nature.




### Leased Residential Property


**16** No person shall have a hoofed animal on leased residential property.



**17** 

- **(1)** No lessee shall allow more than three domestic animals to be on the lessee’s leased residential property at one time, except if the additional animals are unweaned young of any of the three permitted animals.

- **(2)** No lessee shall allow a domestic animal that is on the lessee’s leased residential property to make noise for more than 15 minutes between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

- **(3)** Every lessee shall pick up and dispose of fecal matter deposited by a domestic animal on the lessee’s leased residential property.



**18** No person shall have a domestic animal on leased residential property unless it is restrained in one of the following ways:
- **(a)** it is in the residence;
- **(b)** it is restrained on a leash or by the handle of a harness
	- **(i)** that is held by a person, or is securely attached to an object that cannot be displaced by the animal, and
	- **(ii)** that is not more than two metres (6.5 feet) long;
- **(c)** it is in a container from which it cannot escape;
- **(d)** it is in an enclosure or behind a fence that is of a construction and dimensions sufficient to keep it within the limits of the property; or
- **(e)** it is in a location on the property controlled by an invisible electronic fencing system.




### Leased Agricultural Property


**19** A lessee of leased agricultural property who is the keeper of a domestic animal shall use effective measures to keep it within the limits of the property.




## Powers of Peace Officers


**20** 

- **(1)** A peace officer shall order the keeper of an animal to remove the animal from Commission land if
	- **(a)** the animal is on Commission land in a location where the keeper is prohibited from having the animal without the authorization of the Commission under subsection 28(1) and the keeper has not obtained that authorization; or
	- **(b)** the peace officer believes, on reasonable grounds, that the animal is acting in a dangerous or destructive fashion.

- **(2)** Every person to whom an order is given under subsection (1) shall comply with that order.



**21** 

- **(1)** A peace officer is authorized to capture an animal that is unrestrained on Commission land in contravention of these Regulations if the keeper of the animal is not present or is unable or unwilling to capture the animal.

- **(2)** When the keeper of the animal is not present, the peace officer is authorized to impound the animal at the expense of the owner.

- **(3)** When the keeper of the animal is present, the peace officer shall order the keeper
	- **(a)** in the case of a domestic animal, to restrain the animal as described in section 7 or 10, as applicable, or, if it is not possible to restrain the animal in such a fashion, to remove the animal from Commission land; and
	- **(b)** in the case of an animal other than a domestic animal, to remove the animal from Commission land.

- **(4)** Every person to whom an order is given under subsection (3) shall comply with that order.



**22** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (3), a peace officer is authorized to take any injured animal that they find or capture pursuant to subsection 21(1) to a veterinarian for medical care at the expense of the owner.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), if the peace officer believes, on reasonable grounds, that the animal is so severely injured that the most humane action would be to destroy the animal, the peace officer is authorized to destroy it.

- **(3)** Before taking any action under subsection (1) or (2), the peace officer shall
	- **(a)** if the keeper of the animal is not present, use reasonable efforts to locate the keeper; and
	- **(b)** if the keeper is present or is located, obtain their consent to the action proposed.



**23** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), if, on unleased land, a peace officer finds an animal unattended in a vehicle or container in excessive heat or cold that could endanger the health of the animal, the peace officer is authorized to take reasonable measures to remove the animal from the vehicle or container.

- **(2)** Before taking any action under subsection (1), the peace officer shall
	- **(a)** use reasonable efforts to locate the keeper of the animal; and
	- **(b)** if the keeper is present or is located, obtain their consent to the action proposed.

- **(3)** When a peace officer removes an animal from a vehicle or container pursuant to subsection (1) and the keeper of the animal is not present, the peace officer is authorized to impound the animal at the expense of the owner.



**24** 

- **(1)** After having taken all reasonable measures to stop the animal, a peace officer is authorized to destroy an animal that is attacking the peace officer or another person on Commission land if the peace officer believes, on reasonable grounds, that it would be too dangerous for the peace officer or the keeper of the animal, if present, to attempt to capture the animal.

- **(2)** After having taken all reasonable measures to stop the animal, a peace officer is authorized to destroy an animal that is attacking another animal on Commission land if the peace officer believes, on reasonable grounds, that
	- **(a)** the animal being attacked may suffer serious injury or death; and
	- **(b)** it would be too dangerous for the peace officer or the keeper of the animal, if present, to attempt to capture the animal.



**25** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), after having taken all reasonable measures to stop the animal, a peace officer is authorized to destroy an animal that is at large on Commission land if the peace officer believes, on reasonable grounds, that
	- **(a)** the continued presence of the animal will
		- **(i)** damage property of the Commission, or
		- **(ii)** pose a threat to public safety; and
	- **(b)** it would be too dangerous for the peace officer to attempt to capture the animal.

- **(2)** Before destroying an animal under subsection (1), the peace officer shall use reasonable efforts to locate the keeper of the animal.

- **(3)** If the keeper of the animal is present or is located, the peace officer shall warn the keeper that the animal will be destroyed unless it is controlled or captured.



**26** When a peace officer impounds an animal, takes an animal to a veterinarian or destroys an animal pursuant to any of sections 21 to 25, the peace officer shall, as soon as possible, inform the owner of the animal of the peace officer’s actions, if the name and the address, phone number or other indicators of the whereabouts of the owner can be readily ascertained from
- **(a)** tags or other identification worn by the animal;
- **(b)** any tattoo or other marking on the animal; or
- **(c)** any other source of information readily available.




## Powers of the Commission


**27** 

- **(1)** In locations on unleased land where domestic animals are otherwise permitted under these Regulations, the Commission may, by signs, mark an area where domestic animals are prohibited, if such a prohibition is necessary for reasons of public safety or for protection of property of the Commission.

- **(2)** In areas of unleased land where hoofed animals are not otherwise permitted under these Regulations, the Commission may, by signs, mark an area where hoofed animals are permitted, if the presence of hoofed animals does not pose a threat to public safety or to property of the Commission.



**28** 

- **(1)** If the presence of an animal does not pose a threat to public safety or property of the Commission, the Commission shall, on application, issue a written authorization to a person to use the animal in an organized event on Commission land.

- **(2)** The keeper of an animal shall, while the animal is on Commission land pursuant to an authorization issued under subsection (1), control the animal at all times in accordance with the terms of the authorization.



**29** 

- **(1)** An authorization issued pursuant to subsection 28(1) shall, at a minimum, specify the duration of the authorization, the description of Commission land to which the authorization applies and any special animal restraining measures or public health and safety requirements.

- **(2)** No person contravenes these Regulations by virtue only of the fact that the person does anything permitted in an authorization issued pursuant to subsection 28(1) while that authorization remains in effect.

- **(3)** An authorization issued pursuant to subsection 28(1) is no longer in effect if the person to whom it was issued fails to comply with any term or condition of the authorization.




## Penalties


**30** Every person who contravenes these Regulations is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $500 or to imprisonment for a term of not more than six months, or to both.




## Coming into Force


**31** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Subsections 6(1) and (2))**

**PART 1** 
## Quebec


**DIVISION 1** 
### Urban Lands


#### Parks

Brébeuf Park: Park within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Boudria Street, Maricourt Street and Bourget Street;



**(b)** on the south by the Ottawa River;



**(c)** on the east by Hydro-Québec lands; and



**(d)** on the west by Moussette Park.




Des Chars de Combat Park: Park within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau and bounded

**(a)** on the north by parking lots and the baseball diamond immediately south of St-Jean-Bosco Street;



**(b)** on the south by the Salaberry Armoury parking lot;



**(c)** on the east by a fence and the Canadian Pacific railway line; and



**(d)** on the west by St-Joseph Boulevard.




Jacques Cartier Park: Park within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Brewery Creek;



**(b)** on the south by the Alexandra Bridge and the western approach to the bridge;



**(c)** on the east by the Ottawa River; and



**(d)** on the west by Laurier Street, Dussault Street and Fournier Boulevard.




Leamy Lake Park: Park within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Gatineau River and a residential area;



**(b)** on the south by Brewery Creek;



**(c)** on the east by the Ottawa River; and



**(d)** on the west by the Casino du Lac-Leamy, de la Carrière Boulevard and Parc industriel Richelieu de Gatineau.




Montcalm Taché Park: Park within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau and bounded

**(a)** on the north by a stone wall;



**(b)** on the south by Alexandre-Taché Boulevard;



**(c)** on the east by Montcalm Street; and



**(d)** on the west by Brewery Creek.




Portageurs Park: Park within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Canadian Pacific railway line;



**(b)** on the south by the Ottawa River;



**(c)** on the east by the Domtar Inc. lands; and



**(d)** on the west by Hydro-Québec lands.




Sentier de l’île Park: Park within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau and bounded

**(a)** on the north and the south by a residential area;



**(b)** on the east by Laurier Street; and



**(c)** on the west by St-Rédempteur Street.





#### Corridor Lands

Lac des Fées Parkway corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau, adjacent to and east of Lac des Fées Parkway and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Gamelin Street;



**(b)** on the south by Scott Street; and



**(c)** on the east by a residential area.




Philemon-Wright corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau, adjacent to and on both sides of the Leamy Creek Pathway and bounded

**(a)** on the north by a residential area and Highway 5;



**(b)** on the south by a residential area and Parc industriel Richelieu de Gatineau;



**(c)** on the east by St-Joseph Boulevard; and



**(d)** on the west by Cité-des-Jeunes Boulevard.




Voyageurs corridor land/Des Rapides-Deschênes Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau, adjacent to and on both sides of the Voyageurs Pathway and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Lucerne Boulevard and Brunet Boulevard;



**(b)** on the south by the Ottawa River;



**(c)** on the east by one of the City of Gatineau filtration plants; and



**(d)** on the west by Martel Street, Rosenes Street and Gibeault Street.





#### Capital Pathways

- De l’île Pathway
- Gatineau River Pathway
- Lac-des-Fées Pathway
- Leamy Creek Pathway
- Leamy Lake Pathway
- Pionniers Pathway
- Ruisseau-de-la-Brasserie Pathway
- Voyageurs Pathway

#### Sidewalks

- Champlain Bridge sidewalk: Sidewalk within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau on the east and west sides of the Champlain Bridge, including its northern approaches.
- Confederation Boulevard Esplanade: Sidewalk on the south and east sides of Laurier Street within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau from the Portage Bridge to the Alexandra Bridge including the boardwalk on the south side of the Alexandra Bridge in the City of Gatineau.
- Portage Bridge sidewalk: Sidewalk within the boundaries of the City of Gatineau on the east and west sides of the Portage Bridge, including its northern approaches.

**DIVISION 2** 
### Gatineau Park


#### Access from April 15 to November 30


##### Trails

- Champlain Trail
- Hanggliding Trail
- Hickory Trail
- Lac des Fées Trail
- Lusk Cave Trail
- Wolf Trail
- Trails 1, 1B, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 40, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58

##### Capital Pathway

- Gatineau Park Pathway

##### Corridor Lands

(Corridor lands are mown strips of land adjacent to and on both sides of the parkways or roads to which reference is made.)


- Champlain Parkway corridor land
- Fortune Parkway corridor land
- Gatineau Parkway corridor land
- Lac La Pêche Road corridor land
- Lac Philippe Parkway corridor land
- Lac Taylor Road corridor land
- Pointe Pellerin Road corridor land

##### Other Site

- Mackenzie King Estate

#### Year-round Access


##### Trails

- Larriault Trail/Waterfall Trail
- Pionniers Trail
- Sugarbush Trail

**PART 2** 
## Ontario


**DIVISION 1** 
### Urban Lands


#### Parks

Commissioner’s Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Carling Avenue;



**(b)** on the south by Queen Elizabeth Driveway corridor land;



**(c)** on the east by Lakeview Terrace and Opeongo Road; and



**(d)** on the west by Preston Street.




Confederation Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the western approaches to the Mackenzie King Bridge;



**(b)** on the south by Laurier Avenue and the western approaches to the Laurier Avenue Bridge;



**(c)** on the east by Queen Elizabeth Driveway corridor land; and



**(d)** on the west by Elgin Street.




Garden of the Provinces: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Wellington Street;



**(b)** on the south by the Sparks Street escarpment;



**(c)** on the east by Bay Street; and



**(d)** on the west by Wellington Street.




Hampton Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by a residential area;



**(b)** on the south by the Queensway;



**(c)** on the east by Island Park Drive corridor land; and



**(d)** on the west by a residential area.




Hog’s Back Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Heron Road;



**(b)** on the south by Hog’s Back Road;



**(c)** on the east by Riverside Drive; and



**(d)** on the west by Hog’s Back Falls and the Rideau River.




King Edward Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Minto Bridges;



**(b)** on the south by Cathcart Street;



**(c)** on the east by the Rideau River; and



**(d)** on the west by King Edward Avenue.




Kingsview Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Beechwood Avenue and Vanier Parkway;



**(b)** on the south by Montreal Road;



**(c)** on the east by River Road; and



**(d)** on the west by the Rideau River.




Linear Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Young Street;



**(b)** on the south by Carling Avenue;



**(c)** on the east by a residential area; and



**(d)** on the west by the Canadian Pacific railway line.




Major’s Hill Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by St. Patrick Street and the eastern approach to the Alexandra Bridge;



**(b)** on the south by the Château Laurier;



**(c)** on the east by Mackenzie Avenue; and



**(d)** on the west by the Rideau Canal and the Ottawa River.




Rideau Falls Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by John Street;



**(b)** on the south by the National Research Council lands;



**(c)** on the east by Sussex Drive; and



**(d)** on the west by the Ottawa River.




River Road Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Donald Street;



**(b)** on the south by the Queensway;



**(c)** on the east by River Road; and



**(d)** on the west by the Rideau River.




Rockcliffe Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Teahouse Road;



**(b)** on the south by Princess Road;



**(c)** on the east by Lisgar Road; and



**(d)** on the west by the Ottawa River.




Stanley Park: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Stanley Avenue;



**(b)** on the south by the Rideau River;



**(c)** on the east by New Edinburgh Park; and



**(d)** on the west by Sussex Drive.





#### Corridor Lands

Aviation Parkway corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of the Aviation Parkway, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Rockcliffe Parkway;



**(b)** on the south by the Queensway; and



**(c)** on the east and west by a residential area.




Colonel By Drive corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of Colonel By Drive, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Sussex Drive and DND Road;



**(b)** on the south by Hog’s Back Road;



**(c)** on the east by the Rideau Centre, the National Defence Headquarters, Nicholas Street, a residential area, Carleton University and the Rideau River; and



**(d)** on the west by the Rideau Canal.




Island Park Drive corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of Island Park Drive, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Ottawa River Parkway corridor land;



**(b)** on the south by Carling Avenue; and



**(c)** on the east and west by a residential area.




Ottawa River Parkway corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of the Ottawa River Parkway, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Ottawa River;



**(b)** on the south by LeBreton Flats, Tunney’s Pasture and a residential area;



**(c)** on the east by the Portage Bridge; and



**(d)** on the west by Carling Avenue.




Patterson Creek corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of Patterson Creek, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Linden Terrace;



**(b)** on the south by a residential area;



**(c)** on the east by Queen Elizabeth Driveway corridor land; and



**(d)** on the west by O’Connor Street.




Queen Elizabeth Driveway corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of Queen Elizabeth Driveway, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the National Arts Centre;



**(b)** on the south by Preston Street;



**(c)** on the east by the Rideau Canal; and



**(d)** on the west by Confederation Park, the Cartier Street Drill Hall, Lisgar Collegiate Institute, Lansdowne Park, Commissioner’s Park and a residential area.




Rockcliffe Parkway corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of the Rockcliffe Parkway, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Ottawa River;



**(b)** on the south by a residential area, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Training Centre, the Terry Fox Centre, the National Aeronautical Collection, a residential area, a sewage disposal plant and Green’s Creek Conservation Area;



**(c)** on the east by St. Joseph Boulevard; and



**(d)** on the west by Rockcliffe Park.




South-West Transitway corridor land: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, adjacent to and on both sides of the Pinecrest Creek Pathway, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Carling Avenue;



**(b)** on the south by the Canadian Pacific railway line;



**(c)** on the east by a residential area and Woodroffe Avenue; and



**(d)** on the west by a residential area.





#### Other Sites

Albion Road lands: Lands within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Walkley Road;



**(b)** on the south by Kitchener Avenue;



**(c)** on the east by Albion Road; and



**(d)** on the west by Jasper Avenue.




Alta Vista lands: Lands within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Heron Road;



**(b)** on the south by Walkley Road;



**(c)** on the east by a residential area; and



**(d)** on the west by the Jim Durrell Recreation Centre and the Walkley Arena.




Beaux-Arts Courtyard: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by St. Patrick Street;



**(b)** on the south by Murray Street;



**(c)** on the east by a residential area; and



**(d)** on the west by the buildings at 419, 425 and 431 Sussex Drive;




Capital Infocentre Plaza: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Wellington Street;



**(b)** on the south by the Capital Infocentre and the building at 101 Sparks Street;



**(c)** on the east by Metcalfe Street; and



**(d)** on the west by the building at 100 Wellington Street.




Château Laurier Terrace: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Major’s Hill Park;



**(b)** on the south by Wellington Street;



**(c)** on the east by the Château Laurier; and



**(d)** on the west by the Rideau Locks lands.




Clarendon Courtyard: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the building at 21 George Street;



**(b)** on the south by the buildings at 11, 15 and 25 George Street;



**(c)** on the east by the building at 33 George Street; and



**(d)** on the west by the buildings at 537, 539 and 541 Sussex Drive.




Confederation Square: A triangular-shaped piece of land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Wellington Street;



**(b)** on the east by Elgin Street and the Plaza Bridge; and



**(c)** on the west by Elgin Street.




Jeanne d’Arc Courtyard: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the building at 22 Clarence Street;



**(b)** on the south by the buildings at 9, 11 and 15 York Street;



**(c)** on the east by the buildings at 24 Clarence Street and 17 York Street; and



**(d)** on the west by the building at 489 Sussex Drive.




LeBreton Flats: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Ottawa River Parkway corridor land and the western approach to the Portage Bridge;



**(b)** on the south by Scott Street, Wellington Street and Albert Street;



**(c)** on the east by Wellington Street; and



**(d)** on the west by the Ottawa River Parkway corridor land.




Ledbury Street lands: Lands within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Ledbury Street and vacant lands;



**(b)** on the south by the Canadian National railway yard;



**(c)** on the east by Albion Road; and



**(d)** on the west by a residential area and vacant lands.




McCarthy Woods lands: Lands within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, and bounded

**(a)** on the north and south by a residential area;



**(b)** on the east by the Airport Parkway; and



**(c)** on the west by the Rideau River.




Nepean Point — Astrolabe Theatre: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north and west by the Ottawa River;



**(b)** on the south by the St. Patrick Street approach to the Alexandra Bridge; and



**(c)** on the east by the National Gallery of Canada and the Canadian War Museum.




Plaza Bridge East Archway: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa located beneath the Plaza Bridge and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Canadian Museum of Contemporary Photography;



**(b)** on the south by the Government Conference Centre;



**(c)** on the east by the eastern abutment to the Plaza Bridge; and



**(d)** on the west by the Rideau Canal.




Plaza Bridge West Archway: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa located beneath the Plaza Bridge and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the Rideau Locks lands;



**(b)** on the south by the National Arts Centre;



**(c)** on the east by the Rideau Canal; and



**(d)** on the west by the staircase to the Plaza Bridge and the staircase to Confederation Square.




Prince of Wales Drive lands: Lands within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, between the Rideau River and Prince of Wales Drive, and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the inlet from the Rideau River immediately north of Melfa Circle;



**(b)** on the south and east by the Rideau River; and



**(c)** on the west by a residential area and Prince of Wales Drive.




Sparks Street Lookout: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north and west by a fence;



**(b)** on the south by the building at 100 Bronson Avenue; and



**(c)** on the east by Bronson Avenue.




Tin House Courtyard: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by Murray Street;



**(b)** on the south by Clarence Street;



**(c)** on the east by the buildings at 81 Murray Street and 17-25 Clarence Street; and



**(d)** on the west by the buildings at 445, 447, 449, 453, 457, 459, 461, 463 and 465 Sussex Drive.




York Courtyard: Land within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa and bounded

**(a)** on the north by the buildings at 12 and 18 York Street;



**(b)** on the south by the building at 21 George Street;



**(c)** on the east by the building at 20 York Street; and



**(d)** on the west by the buildings at 519, 521, 527, 529 and 531 Sussex Drive.





#### Sidewalks

- Champlain Bridge sidewalk: Sidewalk within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa on the west and east sides of the Champlain Bridge, including its southern approaches.
- Confederation Boulevard Esplanade: Boardwalk on the south side of the Alexandra Bridge within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa, continuing as a sidewalk on the south side of the eastern approach to the Alexandra Bridge and St. Patrick Street to Mackenzie Avenue, and on the west side of Mackenzie Avenue to the Château Laurier.
- Portage Bridge sidewalk: Sidewalk within the boundaries of the City of Ottawa on the west and east sides of the Portage Bridge, including its southern approaches.

#### Islands

- Bate Island
- Green Island
- Victoria Island

#### Capital Pathways

- Aviation Pathway
- Experimental Farm Pathway
- Ottawa River Pathway
- Pinecrest Creek Pathway
- Rideau Canal Eastern Pathway
- Rideau Canal Western Pathway
- Rideau River Eastern Pathway
- Watts Creek Pathway

**DIVISION 2** 
### Greenbelt


#### Access from April 15 to November 30


##### Trails

- Main Rideau Trail marked by orange triangles
- Trails 10, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 50, 51, 52, 53, 60, 61, 62 and 63

##### Capital Pathway

- Greenbelt Pathway

#### Year-round access


##### Capital Pathways

- Ottawa River Pathway
- Watts Creek Pathway



### **SCHEDULE 2 / ** ANNEXE 2
**(Section 1 / *article 1*)**
> Image: Pictogram showing a pathway leading to a maple leaf on the horizon flanked by hills on the left side and the Parliament building and other buildings on the right side.


