> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2002/196.md)

# G8 Summit Privileges and Immunities Order, 2002

**SOR/2002-196**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 23 May 2002

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 5(1)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2002-196_e_hq_5857'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2002-196_e_hq_5858'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed G8 Summit Privileges and Immunities Order, 2002.

<a name='fn_SOR-2002-196_e_hq_5857'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3<br />

<a name='fn_SOR-2002-196_e_hq_5858'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***experts performing missions for the Organization*** means governmental or intergovernmental experts who are invited by the Organization to attend the Meeting and the preparatory meetings of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Ministers of Finance. (*experts en mission pour l’Organisation*)

***Meeting*** means the meeting of the Organization to be held in Kananaskis, Alberta from June 26 to 27, 2002. (*réunion*)

***Organization*** means the intergovernmental conference of the eight leading industrialized countries, also known as the G8. (*Organisation*)

***preparatory meetings*** means the meetings of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the eight leading industrialized countries to be held in Whistler, British Columbia from June 12 to 13, 2002 and the meetings of the Ministers of Finance of those countries to be held in Halifax, Nova Scotia from June 14 to 15, 2002. (*réunions préparatoires*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** 

- **(1)** During the period beginning on June 5, 2002 and ending on July 3, 2002, the Organization shall have in Canada the legal capacity of a body corporate and the privileges and immunities set out in Article II, Sections 2 to 5 of the Convention.

- **(2)** During the period beginning on June 5, 2002 and ending on July 3, 2002, representatives of states and governments that are members of the Organization shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting and the preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Sections 11, 12 and 14 to 16 of Article IV of the Convention.

- **(3)** During the period beginning on June 5, 2002 and ending on July 3, 2002, experts performing missions for the Organization shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting and the preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


