> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2002/264.md)

# Support Orders and Support Provisions (Banks and Authorized Foreign Banks) Regulations

**SOR/2002-264**

Enabling authorities: 
- [BANK ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md)

Date registered: 17 July 2002

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to subsections 462(5)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and 579(5)<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Bank Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md)<sup><a href='#footnotec_e'>[c]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Support Orders and Support Provisions (Banks and Authorized Foreign Banks) Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2001, c. 9, s. 126<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2001, c. 9, s. 160<br />

<a name='footnotec_e'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 46<br />




## Interpretation



**Definition of Act**

**1** In these Regulations, ***Act*** means the [Bank Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md).




## Designated Offices of Banks



**Designation by bank**

**2** 

- **(1)** Every bank that carries on business in a province must, for the purpose of subsection 462(3) of the Act, designate an office of the bank in respect of the province for the service of enforcement notices.

**Limitation on designation**

- **(2)** If a bank has one or more branches in a province, the office that the bank designates in respect of the province must be one of those branches.

**Time for designation**

- **(3)** The designation must be made on or before the later of the last day of the three-month period
	- **(a)** beginning on the day on which these Regulations come into force, and
	- **(b)** beginning on the day on which the bank begins to carry on business in the province.




## Designated Offices of Authorized Foreign Banks



**Designation by authorized foreign bank**

**3** 

- **(1)** Every authorized foreign bank that carries on business in a province must, for the purpose of subsection 579(3) of the Act, designate an office of the authorized foreign bank in respect of the province for the service of enforcement notices.

**Limitation on designation**

- **(2)** If an authorized foreign bank has one or more branches in a province, the office that the authorized foreign bank designates in respect of the province must be one of those branches.

**Time for designation**

- **(3)** The designation must be made on or before the later of the last day of the three month period
	- **(a)** beginning on the day on which these Regulations come into force, and
	- **(b)** beginning on the day on which the authorized foreign bank begins to carry on business in the province.




## Publicizing Locations of Designated Offices



**Publicizing requirements**

**4** 

- **(1)** Every bank and every authorized foreign bank that designates an office under section 2 or 3 must publish the name and address of the designated office
	- **(a)** in the Canada Gazette, Part I; and
	- **(b)** at least once a week for four consecutive weeks in one or more newspapers in general circulation in the province in respect of which the office is designated.

**Requirements in case of change**

- **(2)** If a bank or authorized foreign bank changes the office that it has designated in respect of a province, or changes the name or address of a designated office, it must publish a description of the change in the manner provided for under subsection (1).

**Time for publicizing**

- **(3)** The requirement to publicize under subsections (1) or (2) must be completed within three months after the designation or the change, as the case may be.




**Internet site**

**5** Every bank and every authorized foreign bank must post and maintain, on its primary Internet site, an up-to-date list of the names and addresses of its offices designated under these Regulations.




## Information to Accompany Enforcement Notices in Respect of Support Orders and Support Provisions



**Information for identification of debtor**

**6** For the purpose of subsection 462(3) or 579(3) of the Act, the written statement that accompanies an enforcement notice must contain the following information:
- **(a)** the full name of the person who is required to make a payment under the support order or support provision;
- **(b)** the latest known address of that person; and
- **(c)** either
	- **(i)** the social insurance number of that person, or
	- **(ii)** the date of birth of that person.
> SOR/2007-158, s. 1(F).





## Coming into Force


**7** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


