> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2002/266.md)

# Support Orders and Support Provisions (Trust and Loan Companies) Regulations

**SOR/2002-266**

Enabling authorities: 
- [TRUST AND LOAN COMPANIES ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2045.md)

Date registered: 17 July 2002

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to subsection 448(5)<sup><a href='#fna_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Trust and Loan Companies Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2045.md)<sup><a href='#fnb_e'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Support Orders and Support Provisions (Trust and Loan Companies) Regulations.

<a name='fna_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2001, c. 9, s. 549<br />

<a name='fnb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 45<br />




## Interpretation



**Definition of Act**

**1** In these Regulations, ***Act*** means the [Trust and Loan Companies Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2045.md).




## Designated Offices of Companies



**Designation by company**

**2** 

- **(1)** Every company that carries on business in a province must, for the purpose of subsection 448(3) of the Act, designate an office of the company in respect of the province for the service of enforcement notices.

**Limitation on designation**

- **(2)** If a company has one or more branches in a province, the office that the company designates in respect of the province must be one of those branches.

**Time for designation**

- **(3)** The designation must be made on or before the later of the last day of the three-month period
	- **(a)** beginning on the day on which these Regulations come into force, and
	- **(b)** beginning on the day on which the company begins to carry on business in the province.




## Publicizing Locations of Designated Offices



**Publicizing requirements**

**3** 

- **(1)** Every company that designates an office under section 2 must publish the name and address of the designated office
	- **(a)** in the Canada Gazette, Part I; and
	- **(b)** at least once a week for four consecutive weeks in one or more newspapers in general circulation in the province in respect of which the office is designated.

**Requirements in case of change**

- **(2)** If a company changes the office that it has designated in respect of a province, or changes the name or address of a designated office, it must publish a description of the change in the manner provided for under subsection (1).

**Time for publicizing**

- **(3)** The requirement to publicize under subsection (1) or (2) must be completed within three months after the designation or the change, as the case may be.




**Internet site**

**4** Every company must post and maintain, on its primary Internet site, an up-to-date list of the names and addresses of its offices designated under these Regulations.




## Information to Accompany Enforcement Notices in Respect of Support Orders and Support Provisions



**Information for identification of debtor**

**5** For the purpose of subsection 448(3) of the Act, the written statement that accompanies an enforcement notice must contain the following information:
- **(a)** the full name of the person who is required to make a payment under the support order or support provision;
- **(b)** the latest known address of that person; and
- **(c)** either
	- **(i)** the social insurance number of that person, or
	- **(ii)** the date of birth of that person.




## Coming into Force


**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


