> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/88/174.md)

# Regulations Levying a Streetworks Tax in the Town of Jasper

**SOR/88-174**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA NATIONAL PARKS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2000/c.%2032.md)

Date registered: 10 March 1988

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of the Environment, pursuant to subsection 7(1)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-88-174_e_hq_5203'>[*]</a></sup> of the National Parks Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations levying a streetworks tax in Banff and Jasper National Parks.

<a name='fn_SOR-88-174_e_hq_5203'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1974, c. 11, s. 3<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Town of Jasper Streetworks Taxes Regulations.
> SOR/90-235.





## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***lot*** means a parcel of land abutting a street; (*lot*)

***streetworks tax*** means a tax to defray the cost of the establishment, operation, maintenance and administration of streets, street lighting, sidewalks and other works or improvements of a public character in respect of streets. (*impôts sur les travaux de voirie*)




## Streetworks Tax


**3** 

- **(1)** A streetworks tax determined in accordance with the schedule is hereby levied on every lessee or licensee or licensee of a lot in the Town of Jasper, as designated in the National Parks Townsite and Subdivision Designation Regulations.

- **(2)** The streetworks tax payable in a year shall be paid, the first one-half not later than April 1 of the year and the remainder thereof not later than October 1 of the same year.
> SOR/90-235.





### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 3)**
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Town</th>
<th>Streetworks Tax</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Town of Jasper</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>(a)</td>
<td>for a lot where streets, sidewalks, street lighting, and other works or improvements of a public character in respect of streets were provided by a developer at no cost to the Department of the Environment </td>
<td>$2.22 per $1,000 or fraction thereof of assessed value of only the land element of a lot as determined from the assessment roll in effect on April 1, 1986 for the Jasper School District.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>(b)</td>
<td>for any other lot </td>
<td>$3.04 per $1,000 or fraction thereof of assessed value of only the land element of a lot as determined from the assessment roll in effect on April 1, 1986 for the Jasper School District.</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/90-34, s. 1; SOR/90-235.


