> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/88/263.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Administration and Registration of Interests and Instruments in Relation to the Newfoundland Offshore Area and Prescribing Fees to Be Paid in Respect of Such Interests and Instruments

**SOR/88-263**

Enabling authorities: 
- CANADA-NEWFOUNDLAND ATLANTIC ACCORD IMPLEMENTATION ACT

----------



## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Newfoundland Offshore Area Registration Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Canada-Newfoundland Atlantic Accord Implementation Act; (*Loi*)

***Newfoundland offshore area*** means the offshore area. (*zone extracôtière de Terre-Neuve*)




## Registrar


**3** The Registrar shall supervise the operation of the system of registration established under Division VIII of Part II of the Act in accordance with that Division and these Regulations.




## Deputy Registrar


**4** 

- **(1)** In the absence of the Registrar, the Deputy Registrar shall have the powers and perform the duties and functions of the Registrar.

- **(2)** Where, at any time, no person is designated by the Board to be the Registrar, the Deputy Registrar shall have the powers and perform the duties and functions of the Registrar.




## Interests


**5** 

- **(1)** Where the Registrar receives an original copy of an interest from the Board, the Registrar shall
	- **(a)** register the interest by endorsing a memorandum of registration on the interest specifying the registration number of the interest and the time and date of registration; and
	- **(b)** prepare an abstract of the interest and forthwith enter the abstract in a book to be maintained as the register.

- **(2)** The abstract referred to in paragraph (1)(b) shall contain the following information:
	- **(a)** the type, effective date and term of the interest;
	- **(b)** the name of the interest owner or, where the interest owner consists of two or more interest holders, the name of each holder;
	- **(c)** the particulars of the shares in the interest; and
	- **(d)** a description of the Newfoundland offshore area, geological formations and substances to which the interest applies.

- **(3)** Where a production licence is subject to the terms and conditions referred to in section 91 of the Act or is subject to the requirements set out in section 92 of the Act, the abstract for that production licence shall, in addition to the information required by subsection (2), contain a notation that the interest is subject to those terms and conditions or those requirements, as the case may be.

- **(4)** Where an interest referred to in section 109 of the Act is registered, the abstract for that interest shall contain a notation of the registration of each instrument that applies to the interest by virtue of that section.

- **(5)** The Registrar shall record in the abstract of the relevant interest
	- **(a)** changes to the information recorded in the abstract arising by virtue of an amendment to that interest or the operation of section 74 or 83 of the Act;
	- **(b)** every order, decision or action of the Board made in relation to that interest that is expressly stated in the Act to be subject to section 124 of the Act;
	- **(c)** every order made pursuant to section 56 of the Act in relation to that interest;
	- **(d)** every notice given by the Board pursuant to subsection 79(1) or 123(1) of the Act in relation to that interest; and
	- **(e)** the extension of the term of that interest or the continuation of that interest beyond its term pursuant to any provision of the Act.

- **(6)** Where an interest expires or is cancelled, the Registrar shall endorse a memorandum to that effect on the original copy of that interest maintained pursuant to paragraph 7(2)(a) and shall make a notation of the expiration or cancellation in the abstract of that interest.

- **(7)** Where two or more interests are consolidated pursuant to subsection 68(3) or section 82 of the Act, the Registrar shall prepare an abstract of the consolidated interest and forthwith enter that abstract in the register.

- **(8)** Each abstract entered in the register pursuant to subsection (7) shall contain the notations made in the abstracts of the interests that have been consolidated.




## Instruments


**6** 

- **(1)** The Registrar shall stamp each document submitted for registration under Division VIII of Part II of the Act with the date and time of its receipt at the office of the Registrar.

- **(2)** The Registrar shall keep a record to be called “the daybook” and, forthwith on receipt of a document submitted for registration, shall record therein in chronological order
	- **(a)** the type and date of the document;
	- **(b)** the name of the person submitting the document; and
	- **(c)** the date and time of receipt of the document at the office of the Registrar.

- **(3)** Where the Registrar refuses to register a document, the Registrar shall forthwith record in the daybook with respect to that document the fact of the refusal.

- **(4)** Where the Registrar accepts a document for registration as an instrument, the Registrar shall forthwith
	- **(a)** register the instrument;
	- **(b)** make a notation of the registration of the instrument in the abstract of each interest to which the instrument relates; and
	- **(c)** record in the daybook with respect to that instrument the fact of the registration.

- **(5)** Where the registration of an instrument is cancelled pursuant to any provision of the Act or these Regulations, the Registrar shall make a notation of the cancellation in each abstract in which a notation of the registration of the instrument appears.




## Office


**7** 

- **(1)** The office of the Registrar shall be located at St. John’s and shall be kept open from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday to Friday, with the exception of statutory holidays on which days the offices of the Board in St. John’s are closed.

- **(2)** The Registrar shall maintain at the office of the Registrar
	- **(a)** the original copies of every interest and instrument registered under Division VIII of Part II of the Act;
	- **(b)** the register; and
	- **(c)** the daybook.




## Searches


**8** 

- **(1)** On request and payment of the appropriate fee prescribed by section 14, any person may, at the office of the Registrar, inspect the daybook, the register and any copies of any interest or instrument registered under Division VIII of Part II of the Act.

- **(2)** On request and payment of the appropriate fee prescribed by section 14, the Registrar shall furnish to the person making the request a certified exact copy of
	- **(a)** any interest or instrument registered under Division VIII of Part II of the Act; and
	- **(b)** the abstract of any interest.

- **(3)** The Registrar may, for the purposes of subsection (2), certify that an enlarged print made from a microphotographic film or an electronic or magnetic recording of an abstract, interest or instrument is an exact copy of the abstract, interest or instrument.




## Corrections


**9** 

- **(1)** The Registrar may cancel the registration of any instrument registered in error.

- **(2)** Where the particulars of any interest, instrument or other matter required by these Regulations to be recorded or noted in an abstract have not been recorded or noted or have been recorded or noted incorrectly, the Registrar shall forthwith correct the omission or error when the omission or error becomes known to the Registrar.

- **(3)** The Registrar shall send a certified exact copy of each abstract corrected pursuant to subsection (2) to
	- **(a)** the interest owner of the interest to which the corrected abstract relates or, where a representative has been appointed or designated pursuant to section 53 of the Act, to the representative; and
	- **(b)** the secured party under each security notice registered in respect of the interest to which the corrected abstract relates that has not been fully discharged as of the time of the correction.




## Demand for Information


**10** Those persons that have written authorization from a person referred to in paragraph 113(1)(a), (b) or (c) of the Act to serve a demand for information are members of a prescribed class for the purposes of subsection 113(1) of the Act.




## Notice


**11** Where, under the Act, a notice is required to be given to a person, it shall be given to that person by personal service or by sending it to that person by registered mail, telex or telecopy, at the latest known address of that person on file with the Registrar.




## Surrender of Interests


**12** 

- **(1)** An interest may be surrendered with respect to all or any portion of the Newfoundland offshore area subject to the interest by sending a notice of surrender to the Registrar describing the Newfoundland offshore area in respect of which the interest is surrendered.

- **(2)** A surrender of an interest in respect of all the Newfoundland offshore area subject to the interest shall be executed by the interest owner or, where the interest owner consists of more than one interest holder, by each holder.

- **(3)** A surrender of an interest in respect of a portion of the Newfoundland offshore area subject to the interest shall be executed by the interest owner or by the holder of each share in the interest held in respect of that portion.




## Appointment of a Representative


**13** 

- **(1)** Interest holders shall appoint a representative referred to in subsection 53(1) of the Act by sending to the Registrar a notice of appointment executed by each interest holder and the representative.

- **(2)** Where there is a change in the name or address of a representative referred to in subsection (1), the representative shall notify the Registrar forthwith of the change.

- **(3)** Where an interest holder terminates the appointment of a representative referred to in subsection 53(1) of the Act, the interest holder shall forthwith notify the Registrar of the termination and the termination shall not be effective until the Registrar receives the notification.




## Fees


**14** 

- **(1)** The fee for a service set out in Column I of an item of the schedule is the fee set out in Column II of that item and is payable at the time the service is rendered.

- **(2)** Where a fee is payable pursuant to these Regulations, it is payable to the Receiver General.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 14)**
#### TARIFF OF FEES
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Service</th>
<th>Fee</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Registration of a transfer</td>
<td>$25 per interest</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Registration of a security notice</td>
<td>$50 per interest</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Registration of an instrument other than a transfer or security notice</td>
<td>$10 per interest</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Furnishment of a certified exact copy of an abstract</td>
<td>$10 plus $0.25 per page copied</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Furnishment of a certified exact copy of an interest or instrument</td>
<td>$10 plus $0.25 per page copied</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Provision of any photocopy, form or reproduction</td>
<td>$0.25 per page copied</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Inspection of an interest or instrument</td>
<td>$1 per document inspected</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Inspection of the daybook</td>
<td>$1 per inspection</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Inspection of the register</td>
<td>$1 per inspection</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Issuance of an exploration licence</td>
<td>$250 per grid or portion thereof</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Continuation of an exploration agreement as an exploration licence where the fees to enter into an exploration agreement as prescribed by the Canada Oil and Gas Interests Regulations have not been paid</td>
<td>$250 per grid or portion thereof, for original agreement area</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Application for a significant discovery licence</td>
<td>$10 per licence</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Application for a production licence</td>
<td>$10 per licence</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Extension, by order, of the term of a production licence</td>
<td>$10 per extension</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Application for a licence for subsurface storage</td>
<td>$250 per grid or portion thereof</td>
</tr>
</table>


