> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/88/362.md)

# Rules Respecting Disciplinary Action in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police

**SOR/88-362**

Enabling authorities: 
- [ROYAL CANADIAN MOUNTED POLICE ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-10.md)

Date registered: 30 June 1988

----------

The Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, pursuant to subsections 2(3)<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> and 40(4)<sup><a href='#fn_2e'>[**]</a></sup>, paragraph 41(1)(f)<sup><a href='#fn_2e'>[**]</a></sup> and subsections 41(10)<sup><a href='#fn_2e'>[**]</a></sup>, 42(8)<sup><a href='#fn_2e'>[**]</a></sup> and 45.12(4)<sup><a href='#fn_2e'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Royal Canadian Mounted Police Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-10.md), hereby makes the annexed Rules respecting disciplinary action in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, effective June 30, 1988.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1986, c. 11, s. 1<br />

<a name='fn_2e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1986, c. 11, s. 15<br />

Ottawa, June 30, 1988




## Short Title


**1** These Rules may be cited as the Commissioner’s Standing Orders (Disciplinary Action).
> SOR/96-77, s. 1(F).





## Interpretation


**2** In these Rules,

***Act*** means the [Royal Canadian Mounted Police Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-10.md); (*Loi*)

***appropriate officer***[Revoked, SOR/89-487, s. 1]

***commanding officer*** includes the Director of Administrative Services; (*commandant divisionnaire*)

***level I*** means the first level in the appeal process with respect to appeals from any informal disciplinary action referred to in paragraphs 41(1)(e) to (g) of the Act; (*niveau I*)

***level II*** means the final level in the appeal process set out in subsections 42(4) and (6) of the Act. (*niveau II*) 

***officer***[Repealed, SOR/96-77, s. 2]
> SOR/89-487, s. 1; SOR/96-77, s. 2.





## Detachment


**3** For the purposes of sections 40 and 41 of the Act, ***detachment*** includes any organizational component within the Force that is commanded by a member, other than an officer, who reports directly to an officer.
> SOR/96-77, s. 3.





## Officer


**3.1** For the purposes of section 41 of the Act, ***officer*** includes those civilian members, special constables and special constable members who are classified at the senior management or executive level.
> SOR/96-77, s. 4.





## Forfeiture
> [SOR/96-77, s. 5]



**4** For the purposes of paragraph 41(1)(f) of the Act, forfeiture of regular time off shall be used in circumstances where it is reasonable that the member compensate for time
- **(a)** that the member has spent, while on duty, on activities not associated with the member’s duties; or
- **(b)** that the member has not spent on duty when the member was required to be on duty.



**4.1** 

- **(1)** For the purposes of paragraphs 41(1)(f) and 45.12(3)(d) of the Act, a work day shall be considered to be eight hours and to include, as part of those hours, a meal period of one half hour.

- **(2)** For the purposes of paragraph 45.12(3)(d) of the Act, a work day’s pay is calculated as eight hours’ gross pay, based on the substantive rank of the member on the date forfeiture is ordered.
> SOR/96-77, s. 6.





## Appeals


**5** Level I is as follows:
- **(a)** in the case of a member or probationary member, a designated assistant commissioner; or
- **(b)** in the case of a commanding officer or director, a designated deputy commissioner.



**6** An appeal from an informal disciplinary action shall be presented in writing within 14 days after the day on which the member receives
- **(a)** in the case of level I, the decision of the appropriate officer; or
- **(b)** in the case of level II, the level I decision.



**7** The appeal period may be extended on presentation of a request therefor by the applicant to the member constituting the appropriate level of appeal.



**8** The member constituting the appropriate level of appeal shall render a decision in writing which shall include the reasons therefor, and a copy of the decision shall be provided to the member presenting the appeal.


