> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/88/502.md)

# Order Respecting the Sale or other Disposition of the Shares of Nordion International Inc. and of Theratronics International Limited by Atomic Energy of Canada Limited and the Acquisition of those Shares by Canada Development Investment Corporation

**SOR/88-502**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 23 September 1988

----------

Whereas the Governor in Council, pursuant to subsection 101(6)<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), is satisfied that Atomic Energy of Canada Limited and Canada Development Investment Corporation are empowered to undertake the annexed transactions;

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1984, c. 31, s. 11<br />

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the President of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada, the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources and the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraphs 101(1)(b)<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> and (d)<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> and 108(2)(b)<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Order respecting the sale or other disposition of the shares of Nordion International Inc. and of Theratronics International Limited by Atomic Energy of Canada Limited and the acquisition of those shares by Canada Development Investment Corporation.




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Nordion International Inc./Theratronics International Limited Shares Order, 1988.




## Authorization


**2** Atomic Energy of Canada Limited is hereby authorized to sell or otherwise dispose of all of the common shares of Nordion International Inc. and of Theratronics International Limited to Canada Development Investment Corporation.



**3** Canada Development Investment Corporation is hereby authorized to acquire from Atomic Energy of Canada Limited all of the common shares of Nordion International Inc. and of Theratronics International Limited.


