> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2012/148.md)

# Prescribed Information for the Description of a Designated Project Regulations

**SOR/2012-148**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADIAN ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ACT, 2012](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2012/c.%2019,%20s.%2052.md)

Date registered: 6 July 2012

----------

The Minister of the Environment, pursuant to paragraph 84(b) of the [Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, 2012](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2012/c.%2019,%20s.%2052.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1256-E_hq_12156'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Prescribed Information for the Description of a Designated Project Regulations.

<a name='fn_81000-2-1256-E_hq_12156'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2012, c. 19, s. 52<br />

Ottawa, July 6, 2012


<p>PETER KENT<br />*Minister of the Environment*<br /></p>




## Information



**Required information**

**1** The information set out in the schedule is prescribed for the purposes of subsection 8(1) of the [Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, 2012](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2012/c.%2019,%20s.%2052.md).




## Amendment to These Regulations


**2** [Amendment]




## Coming into Force



**S.C. 2012, c. 19**

<sup><a href='#fn_IndF732_hq_13006'>[*]</a></sup>**3** 

- **(1)** These Regulations, other than section 2, come into force on the day on which section 52 of the [Jobs, Growth and Long-term Prosperity Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2012/c.%2019.md), chapter 19 of the Statutes of Canada, 2012, comes into force.

**S.C. 2012, c. 19**

- **(2)** Section 2 comes into force on the first day on which both sections 52 and 141 of that Act are in force.

<a name='fn_IndF732_hq_13006'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations, other than section 2, in force July 6, 2012, *see* SI/2012-56.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 1)**
## Prescribed Information for the Description of a Designated Project

## General Information

**1** The project’s name, nature and proposed location.


**2** The proponent’s name and contact information and the name and contact information of their primary representative for the purpose of the description of the project.


**3** A description of and the results of any consultations undertaken with any jurisdictions and other parties including Aboriginal peoples and the public.


**4** Other relevant information, including
- **(a)** the environmental assessment and regulatory requirements of other jurisdictions; and
- **(b)** information concerning any environmental study that is being or has been conducted of the region where the project is to be carried out.



## Project Information

**5** A description of the project’s context and objectives.


**6** The provisions in the schedule to the [Regulations Designating Physical Activities](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2012/147.md) describing the project in whole or in part.


**7** A description of the physical works that are related to the project including their purpose, size and capacity.


**8** The anticipated production capacity of the project and a description of the production processes to be used, the associated infrastructure and any permanent or temporary structures.


**9** A description of all activities to be performed in relation to the project.


**10** A description of any solid, liquid, gaseous or hazardous waste that is likely to be generated during any phase of the project and of plans to manage those wastes.


**11** A description of the anticipated phases of and the schedule for the project’s construction, operation, decommissioning and abandonment.



## Project Location Information

**12** A description of the project’s location, including
- **(a)** its geographic coordinates;
- **(b)** site maps produced at an appropriate scale in order to determine the project’s overall location and the spatial relationship of the project components;
- **(c)** the legal description of land to be used for the project, including the title, deed or document and any authorization relating to a water lot;
- **(d)** the project’s proximity to any permanent, seasonal or temporary residences;
- **(e)** the project’s proximity to reserves, traditional territories as well as lands and resources currently used for traditional purposes by Aboriginal peoples; and
- **(f)** the project’s proximity to any federal lands.



## Federal Involvement

**13** A description of any financial support that federal authorities are, or may be, providing to the project.


**14** A description of any federal land that may be used for the purpose of carrying out the project.


**15** Any federal legislative or regulatory requirements that may be applicable including a list of permits, licences or other authorizations that may be required in order to carry out the project.



## Environmental Effects

**16** A description of the physical and biological setting.


**17** A description of any changes that may be caused, as a result of carrying out the project, to
- **(a)** fish as defined in section 2 of the [Fisheries Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-14.md) and fish habitat as defined in subsection 34(1) of that Act;
- **(b)** aquatic species, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Species at Risk Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2029.md); and
- **(c)** migratory birds, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Migratory Birds Convention Act, 1994](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1994/c.%2022.md).


**18** A description of any changes to the environment that may occur, as a result of carrying out the project, on federal lands, in a province other than the province in which the project is proposed to be carried out or outside of Canada.


**19** Information on the effects on Aboriginal peoples of any changes to the environment that may be caused as a result of carrying out the project, including effects on health and socio-economic conditions, physical and cultural heritage, the current use of lands and resources for traditional purposes or on any structure, site or thing that is of historical, archaeological, paleontological or architectural significance.



## Summary

**20** A summary of the information required under sections 1 to 19.



