> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2012/152.md)

# Regulations Respecting Research, Market Development and Technical Assistance (Wheat and Barley)

**SOR/2012-152**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA GRAIN ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-10.md)

Date registered: 26 July 2012

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 83.2<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1129-E_hq_12070'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Canada Grain Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-10.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1129-E_hq_12071'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Regulations Respecting Research, Market Development and Technical Assistance (Wheat and Barley).

<a name='fn_81000-2-1129-E_hq_12070'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2011, c. 25, s. 27<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-1129-E_hq_12071'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. G-10<br />




## Interpretation


**1** In these Regulations, ***Commission*** means the Alberta Barley Commission.




## Application


**2** These Regulations apply to wheat and barley grown in Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta and the Peace River District of British Columbia.




## Responsible Agency


**3** The Commission is the agency to which amounts are to be remitted under section 83.1 of the [Canada Grain Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-10.md).




## Deductions


**4** 

- **(1)** Any person required to issue a cash purchase ticket under the Act must collect a deduction of the following amounts:
	- **(a)** $0.48 per tonne for wheat; and
	- **(b)** $0.56 per tonne for barley except in the case of barley grown in Alberta for which the amount to be collected is $0.04 per tonne.

- **(2)** The amounts that are deducted must be remitted to the Commission within 30 days from the end of the month in which they are collected along with a report that indicates the amounts deducted in respect of wheat and barley from each producer.




## Refunds of Amounts Deducted


**5** 

- **(1)** Any producer may make an application for a refund from the Commission of any amount that was deducted under subsection 4(1).

- **(2)** The application must be in the appropriate form supplied by the Commission, be signed and dated and contain the producer’s name, mailing address and telephone number.

- **(3)** The application may be made once every crop year and must be submitted by July 31 of that crop year.

- **(4)** The Commission must remit the refund no later than 60 days after the end of the crop year.




## Annual Reports


**6** The Commission must provide an annual report to the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food no later than 90 days after the end of the crop year that contains the following information in respect of wheat and of barley:
- **(a)** the total amounts of deductions;
- **(b)** the total amounts paid for research activities into new and improved varieties of wheat and of barley, the recipients of the funds and a description of those activities;
- **(c)** the total amounts paid for the promotion of the marketing and use of wheat and of barley, the recipients of the funds and a description of those activities;
- **(d)** the total amounts paid for technical assistance relating to the use of wheat and of barley, the recipients of the funds and a description of the technical assistance activities;
- **(e)** the total amounts of refunds; and
- **(f)** details of the administrative costs.




## Coming into Force


**7** These Regulations come into force on August 1, 2012.


