> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2012/293.md)

# Haisla Nation Liquefied Natural Gas Facility Regulations

**SOR/2012-293**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FIRST NATIONS COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2005/c.%2053.md)

Date registered: 14 December 2012

----------

Whereas the Haisla Nation has requested by resolution of its council that the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development recommend to the Governor in Council the making of the annexed Regulations and, in accordance with paragraph 5(1)(a) of the [First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2005/c.%2053.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-15-v2_hq_12436'>[a]</a></sup>, the Minister has received that resolution;

<a name='fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-15-v2_hq_12436'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2005, c. 53<br />

Whereas the Haisla Nation is a First Nation within the meaning of the [First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2005/c.%2053.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-15-v2_hq_12436'>[a]</a></sup>;

Whereas jurisprudence in relation to the Constitution Act, 1867<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-14_hq_12427'>[b]</a></sup> leaves some uncertainty with respect to the application of some provincial laws to reserve lands, and the intention of the annexed Regulations is to ensure that certain laws set out in Schedule 2 to those Regulations apply as federal law to the project lands, within the limits of federal constitutional authority;

<a name='fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-14_hq_12427'><sup>b</sup></a>: 30 & 31 Vict., c. 3 (U.K.)<br />

Whereas the annexed Regulations specify provincial officials by whom, and provincial bodies by which, powers may be exercised or duties must be performed;

And whereas in accordance with paragraph 5(1)(b) of the [First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2005/c.%2053.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-15-v2_hq_12436'>[a]</a></sup> an agreement has been concluded between the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, the Province of British Columbia and the council of the Haisla Nation for the administration and enforcement of the Regulations by those provincial officials and bodies;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, pursuant to section 3<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-22-clean_hq_12487'>[c]</a></sup> of the [First Nations Commercial and Industrial Development Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2005/c.%2053.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-15-v2_hq_12436'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Haisla Nation Liquefied Natural Gas Facility Regulations.

<a name='fn_81000-2-1355-E-2012-05-22-clean_hq_12487'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 6, s. 3<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***incorporated laws*** means the statutes, regulations and other legislative instruments of British Columbia, or the portions of them, set out in Schedule 2, as amended from time to time and as adapted by sections 13 to 43. (*textes législatifs incorporés*)

***project lands*** means the lands set out in Schedule 1. (*terres du projet*)




**Provincial [Interpretation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-21.md)**

**2** The incorporated laws are to be interpreted in accordance with the British Columbia [Interpretation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-21.md) (R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 238), as amended from time to time, and, for that purpose, references to “enactment” in that Act are to be read to include the incorporated laws.




**Other expressions**

**3** For greater certainty, the adaptations in sections 13 to 43 are to be interpreted to be part of the incorporated laws to which they apply.




## Application of Laws



**Incorporation by reference**

**4** Subject to section 5, the incorporated laws apply to the project lands.




**Restriction**

**5** 

- **(1)** A provision of an incorporated law applies only if the provision of the law of British Columbia that it incorporates is in force.

**Restriction**

- **(2)** For greater certainty, an incorporated law applies only to the extent that it is within the limits of federal constitutional authority.




**Incorporation of procedural matters**

**6** 

- **(1)** Unless otherwise provided and subject to any adaptations set out in sections 13 to 43, the following are to be carried out in accordance with the laws of British Columbia, whether or not those laws have been set out in Schedule 2:
	- **(a)** the enforcement of incorporated laws;
	- **(b)** the prosecution of an offence, or any other proceedings, in relation to the contravention of an incorporated law;
	- **(c)** the review or appeal of an action or decision taken, or of a failure to take an action that could have been taken, under an incorporated law;
	- **(d)** any requirements for notice or service in relation to an action to be taken under an incorporated law.

**Related powers**

- **(2)** For the purposes of subsection (1), a person or body that has a power, duty or function under a law of British Columbia has the same power, duty or function in respect of any actions taken under that subsection.




**Offences and penalties**

**7** If contravention of a law of British Columbia that is incorporated in these Regulations is an offence under the laws of British Columbia, contravention of the incorporated law is also an offence and is subject to the same penalties as under the laws of British Columbia.




**Financial requirements under lease**

**8** If the incorporated laws require a cash deposit or other financial security to be given, those requirements do not displace, but instead apply in addition to, the requirements of any lease of the project lands in relation to cash deposits or other financial security.




## Inapplicable Federal Regulations



**Exclusion**

**9** The [Indian Reserve Waste Disposal Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/901-1000/C.R.C.,%20c.%20960.md) do not apply to the project lands.




## Construction Standards



**Conformity with British Columbia standards**

**10** Construction of and alterations to buildings on the project lands must be done in accordance with the British Columbia Building Code and British Columbia Fire Code, as amended from time to time.




**Occupancy permit**

**11** 

- **(1)** No building on the project lands is to be occupied unless the Haisla Nation, or a person authorized by the Haisla Nation, has issued an occupancy permit for that building.

**Occupancy permit**

- **(2)** The Haisla Nation, or a person authorized by the Haisla Nation, must issue an occupancy permit for a building within 15 days after it receives written confirmation by a person registered or licensed as a professional engineer under the Engineers and Geoscientists Act (R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 116) that the building was constructed in accordance with section 10.




## Transitional Provision



**Survival of rights**

**12** Any permits, authorizations, orders or exemptions — including any amendments to them — issued by the British Columbia Oil and Gas Commission in relation to the project lands prior to the coming into force of these Regulations are considered to have been issued under these Regulations and to be valid for the purposes of these Regulations.




## Adaptations Applicable to All Incorporated Laws



**British Columbia statutes and regulations**

**13** Unless otherwise indicated, the statutes and regulations referred to in sections 18 to 43 are statutes and regulations of British Columbia.




**Interpretation of incorporated laws**

**14** 

- **(1)** The incorporated laws are to be read without reference to any of the following:
	- **(a)** spent provisions and provisions making consequential amendments to other enactments that are not incorporated laws;
	- **(b)** provisions appointing a person, providing for the remuneration of a person, or establishing or continuing a provincial body, program or fund;
	- **(c)** provisions relating to the internal management of a provincial body;
	- **(d)** provisions requiring or authorizing monies to be paid from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of British Columbia;
	- **(e)** provisions authorizing the Lieutenant-Governor in Council, a Minister or a provincial body to make regulations of general application, except to the extent required to make the regulations set out in Schedule 2.

**Interpretation of incorporated laws**

- **(2)** Despite paragraph (1)(b),
	- **(a)** a person appointed to a position under a law of British Columbia that has been incorporated by reference in these Regulations is considered to have been appointed to the same position for the purposes of these Regulations, for so long as that person remains in that position under the law of British Columbia; and
	- **(b)** a provincial body, program or fund established or continued under a law of British Columbia that has been incorporated by reference in these Regulations is considered to have been established or continued for the purposes of these Regulations.

**Specified officials and bodies**

- **(3)** For greater certainty, a person or body that has a power, duty or function under a law of British Columbia incorporated by reference in these Regulations has the same power, duty or function under these Regulations, subject to the adaptations set out in sections 18 to 43.

**Interpretation of adapted laws**

- **(4)** For greater certainty, if a law of British Columbia is adapted by these Regulations, a reference to that law in an incorporated law or in any notice, form, instrument or other document issued under an incorporated law is to be read as a reference to that law as adapted by these Regulations.




**Exclusion**

**15** Unless otherwise provided by these Regulations, a provision of an incorporated law that imposes an obligation, liability or penalty on an owner, occupier, public authority, public body or unspecified person or entity does not apply to Her Majesty in right of Canada or federal ministers or officials.




**Limitation on searches and inspections**

**16** A power to search or make inspections under an incorporated law, including the power to enter a place, does not include a power to enter or search, or to inspect anything in, a federal government office, without the consent of the person who is or appears to be in charge of that office.




**Limitation on production of documents**

**17** A power to seize, remove or compel the production of documents under an incorporated law does not include a power to seize, remove or compel the production of a document in the possession of the federal government, without the consent of the person in possession of the document.




## Adaptations to the Environmental Management Act and Regulations



**Municipalities**

**18** The Environmental Management Act and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2 are to be read without reference to any powers conferred on a municipality or an employee of a municipality.




### Environmental Management Act



**Adaptation to Part 4**

**19** For the purposes of Part 4 of the Environmental Management Act, the standard to be applied for remediation is a standard consistent with industrial land use.




**Adaptation to section 40(1)(b)**

**20** In section 40(1)(b) of the Act, a reference to “the applicable municipality” is to be read as a reference to “the director”.




**Adaptation to section 55(6)**

**21** Section 55(6) of the Act is to be read as follows:

- **(6)** Her Majesty in right of Canada and Her Ministers and officials, and the Haisla Nation and its council and employees, do not incur any liability and are not to be considered a responsible person under this Act as a result of any bylaw, law, permit, license, approval or other document adopted or issued under the [Indian Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-5.md) (Canada), or a land code adopted under the [First Nations Land Management Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1999/c.%2024.md) (Canada), that authorizes the removal or deposit of contaminated soil from or on the project lands.




**Adaptation to section 61(1)**

**22** In section 61(1) of the Act, a reference to “government” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada and the Haisla Nation.




### Contaminated Sites Regulation



**General adaptation**

**23** For the purposes of the Contaminated Sites Regulation, the standard to be applied for remediation is a standard consistent with industrial land use.




**General adaptation**

**24** For greater certainty, the power of the director to require financial security under section 48(4) of the Regulation does not include the power to require financial security from Her Majesty in right of Canada.




## Adaptation to the Forest Practices Board Regulation



**General adaptation**

**25** The Forest Practices Board Regulation applies only insofar as it relates to the Wildfire Act.




## Adaptation to the Integrated Pest Management Regulation



**Adaptation to section 1 Crown land**

**26** For the purposes of the Integrated Pest Management Regulation, the project lands are to be considered as private lands.




## Adaptation to the Occupiers Liability Act



**Adaptation to section 1 occupier**

**27** The definition of ***occupier*** in section 1 of the Occupiers Liability Act is to be read to exclude the Haisla Nation.




## Adaptations to the Oil and Gas Activities Act and Regulations



### Oil and Gas Activities Act



**General adaptation**

**28** For the purposes of the Oil and Gas Activities Act and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2, the project lands are to be considered as unoccupied Crown land.




**Survival of rights**

**29** Instead of granting a permit or giving an authorization under the Act, the commission may rely on a permit issued, or other authorization given, under the [Indian Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-5.md) (Canada) in relation to the project lands.




**Adaptation to section 1(2) specified enactment**

**30** 

- **(1)** The definition of ***specified enactment*** in section 1(2) of the Act is to be read without reference to the Land Act, the Forest Act and the Heritage Conservation Act.

**Adaptation to section 1(2) specified provision**

- **(2)** The definition of ***specified provision*** in section 1(2) of the Act is to be read without reference to paragraphs (b) to (d).




**Adaptation to section 23(5)**

**31** Section 23(5) of the Act is to be read without reference to paragraph (a).




**Adaptation to section 34(2)(a)(i)**

**32** In section 34(2)(a)(i) of the Act, a reference to the Land Act is to be read as a reference to the [Indian Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-5.md) (Canada).




**Adaptation to section 53(3)**

**33** The powers of the commissioner under section 53(3) of the Act do not include the power to make an order against Her Majesty in right of Canada.




**Adaptation to section 56(1)**

**34** In section 56(1) of the Act, a reference to “government” is to be read to include Her Majesty in right of Canada.




**Adaptation to sections 74(2)(a) and 76(6)(a)**

**35** In sections 74(2)(a) and 76(6)(a) of the Act, a reference to “person” is to be read to exclude Her Majesty in right of Canada.




### Administrative Penalties Regulation



**Adaptation to section 2(1)**

**36** Section 2(1) of the Administrative Penalties Regulation is to be read without reference to section 36(1) of the Act.




**Adaptation to section 3**

**37** Section 3 of the Regulation is to be read without reference to section 19 of the Environmental Protection and Management Regulation.




### Environmental Protection and Management Regulation



**Adaptation to sections 6(b) and (d)**

**38** Sections 6(b) and (d) of the Environmental Protection and Management Regulation are to be read to apply only to wildlife habitat areas and wildlife habitat features located outside the project lands.




**Adaptation to section 7(1)(b)**

**39** 

- **(1)** Section 7(1)(b) of the Regulation is to be read to apply only to resource features located outside the project lands.

**Adaptation to section 7(1)(c)**

- **(2)** Section 7(1)(c) of the Regulation is to be read to apply only to cultural heritage resources located outside the project lands.




## Adaptation to the Public Health Act



**Adaptation to section 99(1)(d)**

**40** Section 99(1)(d) of the Public Health Act is to be read as follows:

- **(d)** section 11 *[failure to make reports]*;






## Adaptations to the Weed Control Act and Regulations



### Weed Control Act



**General adaptation**

**41** For the purposes of the Weed Control Act and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2, the project lands are not to be considered as land, premises or property in a municipality.




### Weed Control Regulation



**Adaptation to Schedule B**

**42** Schedule B to the Weed Control Regulation is to be read without reference to the sentence “If that cost is not paid it may, under section 8 of the Act, be collected and recovered as taxes in arrears under the Municipal Act or as unpaid taxes under the Taxation (Rural Area) Act”.




## Adaptation to the Wildfire Act and Regulations



**General adaptation**

**43** For the purposes of the Wildfire Act and the regulations made under it set out in Schedule 2, the project lands are to be considered as private lands.




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**44** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Section 1)**
## Project Lands
Those lands in the Bees Indian Reserve No. 6, more particularly known and described as


In the Province of British Columbia, in Range 4, Coast District, the whole of Bees Indian Reserve No. 6, more particularly described as all of Lots 1, 3 and 4 on Plan 96252 and Lots 2-1 and 2-2 on Plan 97774, recorded in the Canada Lands Surveys Records in Ottawa. Together these lots contain about 70.63 hectares.





### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Section 1, subsection 6(1), paragraph 14(1)(e), sections 18, 28, 41 and 43)**
## Incorporated Laws

## Statutes and Regulations

- Drinking Water Protection Act, S.B.C. 2001, c. 9, other than sections 31(4) and 38
- Drinking Water Protection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 200/2003
- Environmental Management Act, S.B.C. 2003, c. 53, other than sections 23 to 38, 40(1)(a), 40(1)(b)(i), (ii), (iv) and (v), 44(2)(b)(iii) and (e)(iii), 53(3)(e) and 59(4) to (7)
- Conservation Officer Service Authority Regulation, B.C. Reg. 318/2004, other than sections 1(2)(a) to (a.2), (a.4) to (c), (d) to (g) and (i)
- Contaminated Sites Regulation, B.C. Reg. 375/96, other than sections 41(3)(h) and 48(1) to (3)
- Environmental Data Quality Assurance Regulation, B.C. Reg. 301/90
- Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation, B.C. Reg. 330/81
- Hazardous Waste Regulation, B.C. Reg. 63/88, other than sections 27(10)(b) and 35(7)(b)
- Municipal Wastewater Regulation, B.C. Reg. 87/2012
- Ozone Depleting Substances and Other Halocarbons Regulation, B.C. Reg. 387/99
- Permit Fees Regulation, B.C. Reg. 299/92, other than sections 3(5) and 5(1)(c)
- Petroleum Storage and Distribution Facilities Storm Water Regulation, B.C. Reg. 168/94
- Spill Cost Recovery Regulation, B.C. Reg. 250/98
- Spill Reporting Regulation, B.C. Reg. 263/90
- Waste Discharge Regulation, B.C. Reg. 320/2004
- Integrated Pest Management Act, S.B.C. 2003, c. 58
- Integrated Pest Management Regulation, B.C. Reg. 604/2004
- Occupiers Liability Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 337, other than section 8
- Oil and Gas Activities Act, S.B.C. 2008, c. 36, other than sections 12, 28, 34(3) to (5), 36(1) and 104
- Administrative Penalties Regulation, B.C. Reg. 35/2011, other than section 7
- Drilling and Production Regulation, B.C. Reg. 282/2010
- Environmental Protection and Management Regulation, B.C. Reg. 200/2010, other than sections 4(b), 5(b), 6(a) and (c), 7(1)(a), 19, 25(b) and (e) to (g) and 26 to 39
- Fee, Levy and Security Regulation, B.C. Reg. 278/2010
- Oil and Gas Activities Act General Regulation, B.C. Reg. 274/2010, other than sections 7 and 24 to 26
- Pipeline and Liquefied Natural Gas Facility Regulation, B.C. Reg. 281/2010, other than section 11(b)
- Public Health Act, S.B.C. 2008, c. 28, other than sections 3 to 10, 12 to 14, 16, 17, 22, 26 to 29, 34(3), 36, 40, 49, 50, 56(5)(c), 60(2)(b) and (c), 61 to 89, 91, 95 and 99(1)(a) to (c), (e) to (g) and (i), (2)(b) and (c) and (3)(b)
- Sewerage System Regulation, B.C. Reg. 326/2004
- Water Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 483, other than sections 2, 27 and 28
- Ground Water Protection Regulation, B.C. Reg. 299/2004
- Water Regulation, B.C. Reg. 204/88, other than sections 24 to 32
- Weed Control Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 487, other than section 8
- Weed Control Regulation, B.C. Reg. 66/85
- Wildfire Act, S.B.C. 2004, c. 31, other than section 4
- Forest Practices Board Regulation, B.C. Reg. 15/2004
- Wildfire Regulation, B.C. Reg. 38/2005

## Other Legislative Instruments

Protocols issued under section 64 of the Environmental Management Act:
- Protocol 2: Site-Specific Numerical Soil Standards
- Protocol 3: Blending, Mixing, or Dilution as a Remediation Approach
- Protocol 4: Determining Background Soil Quality
- Protocol 6: Eligibility of Applications for Review by Approved Professionals
- Protocol 7: Regulation of Petroleum Hydrocarbons in Water under the Contaminated Sites and Special Waste Regulations
- Protocol 9: Determining Background Groundwater Quality
- Protocol 10: Hardness Dependent Site-Specific Freshwater Water Quality Standard for Cadmium and Zinc
- Protocol 11: Upper Cap Concentrations of Substances
- Protocol 12: Site Risk Classification, Reclassification and Reporting
- Protocol 13: Screening Level Risk Assessment
- Protocol 14: Requirements for Determining Barite Sites
- Protocol 16: Determining the Presence and Mobility of Nonaqueous Phase Liquids and Odorous Substances
- Protocol 17: Requirements for Notifications of Independent Remediation and Offsite Migration



