> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2012/83.md)

# Appointment or Deployment of Alternates Regulations

**SOR/2012-83**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md)

Date registered: 10 April 2012

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Canadian Heritage and the Public Service Commission, pursuant to section 21 of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1274-E2_hq_12082'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Appointment or Deployment of Alternates Regulations.

<a name='fn_81000-2-1274-E2_hq_12082'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2003, c. 22, ss. 12 and 13<br />




## Definitions


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***alternate*** means an indeterminate employee who is appointed or deployed to the position of an opting employee. (*remplaçant*)

***opting employee*** means an indeterminate employee whose work unit is relocated and who does not wish to relocate or whose services are no longer required by reason of lack of work, the discontinuance of a function or the transfer of work or a function outside the public service and who has not received a guarantee of a reasonable job offer. (*fonctionnaire optant*)




## Application


**2** These Regulations apply to an alternate who is excluded from the application of section 16, paragraph 22(2)(a), subsection 29(3), sections 30, 31 and 40 to 48, subsection 51(4) and section 77 of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md).




## Alternates


**3** An alternate must submit an irrevocable resignation from employment in the public service that is accepted by the deputy head and that is to take effect no later than five days after the day on which they are appointed or deployed to the position of the opting employee.



**4** An alternate must not perform the duties of the position of the opting employee.



**5** An alternate ceases to be an employee in the public service on the day on which the irrevocable resignation takes effect.




## Coming into Force


**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


