> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2012/87.md)

# International Organization for Migration Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2012-87**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 27 April 2012

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to paragraphs 5(1)(a), (b), (c)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1119-E_hq_11920'>[a]</a></sup> and (f) to (h)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1119-E_hq_11921'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-1119-E_hq_11923'>[c]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed International Organization for Migration Privileges and Immunities Order.

<a name='fn_81000-2-1119-E_hq_11920'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3(2)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-1119-E_hq_11921'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3(3)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-1119-E_hq_11923'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***Organization*** means the International Organization for Migration. (*Organisation*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** 

- **(1)** The Organization is to have in Canada the legal capacities of a body corporate and, to the extent necessary for the exercise of its functions and the fulfilment of its purposes in Canada, the privileges and immunities set out in sections 2 to 5 of Article II and in Article III of the Convention.

- **(2)** The representatives of foreign states that are members of the Organization are to have in Canada, to the extent necessary for the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the Organization, the privileges and immunities set out in paragraphs 11(a) to (f) and sections 12 and 14 to 16 of Article IV of the Convention.

- **(3)** The Director General of the Organization, the Deputy Director General of the Organization and officials of the Organization are to have in Canada, to the extent necessary for the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the Organization, the privileges and immunities set out in paragraphs 18(a) and (c) to (f) of Article V of the Convention.

- **(4)** Experts performing missions for the Organization are to have in Canada, to the extent necessary for the independent exercise of their functions in connection with the Organization, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


