> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2008/102.md)

# Conference of Defence Ministers of the Americas (CDMA) Privileges and Immunities Order, 2008

**SOR/2008-102**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 3 April 2008

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_610818-E_hq_3974'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_610818-E_hq_3975'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Conference of Defence Ministers of the Americas (CDMA) Privileges and Immunities Order, 2008.

<a name='fn_610818-E_hq_3974'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, ss. 3 and 10<br />

<a name='fn_610818-E_hq_3975'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***Meeting*** means the meeting of the Organization to be held in Banff, Alberta from September 2 to 6, 2008. (*réunion*)

***Organization*** means the intergovernmental conference known as the Conference of Defence Ministers of the Americas (CDMA). (*Organisation*)

***Preparatory Meeting*** means the planning and preparatory meeting of the Organization to be held in Banff, Alberta from May 14 to 16, 2008. (*réunion préparatoire*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** During the period beginning on May 11, 2008 and ending on May 19, 2008 and the period beginning on August 31, 2008 and ending on September 9, 2008, representatives of states and governments that are members of the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent that may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Preparatory Meeting and the Meeting, the privileges and immunities set out in Sections 11, 12 and 14 to 16 of Article IV of the Convention.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


