> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2008/244.md)

# British Columbia Vegetable Marketing Levies Order

**SOR/2008-244**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 14 August 2008

----------

The British Columbia Vegetable Marketing Commission, pursuant to section 3 and paragraph 4(a)<sup><a href='#fn_610908-E_hq_4899'>[a]</a></sup> of the [British Columbia Vegetable Order](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/81/49.md)<sup><a href='#fn_3944_hq_4345'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed British Columbia Vegetable Marketing Levies Order.

<a name='fn_610908-E_hq_4899'><sup>a</sup></a>: SOR/2002-309<br />

<a name='fn_3944_hq_4345'><sup>b</sup></a>: SOR/81-49<br />

Surrey, British Columbia, August 12, 2008




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***agency*** means a person designated by the Commodity Board as an agency. (*agence*)

***consumer*** means a person who purchases vegetables for the purpose of consumption within the consumer’s immediate family. (*consommateur*)

***District I*** means that part of the province of British Columbia west of the 121st meridian of west longitude and south of the 50th parallel of north latitude, excluding Vancouver Island and the Gulf Islands. (*District I*)

***District II*** means Vancouver Island and the Gulf Islands. (*District II*)

***District III*** means that part of the province of British Columbia south of the 53rd parallel of north latitude and not in District I or District II. (*District III*)

***field crop*** means field lettuce and celery and any other crop designated by the Commodity Board. (*légumes des champs*)

***greenhouse vegetable crop*** means tomatoes (all types), peppers (all types), cucumbers (all types), butter lettuce (all types) grown in a greenhouse and any other crop designated by the Commodity Board, and includes a greenhouse vegetable crop certified as organic. (*légumes de serre*)

***processing crop*** includes peas, beans, corn, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, strawberries and any other crop designated by the Commodity Board. (*légumes destinés à la transformation*)

***processor*** means any person who changes the nature of vegetables by mechanical means or otherwise and markets, offers for sale or supplies, stores or transports the processed or manufactured product. (*transformateur*)

***producer*** means a person who operates a farm on which one tonne or more of vegetables has been produced during the immediately preceding 12 months and includes a producer who is producing vegetables that have been certified as organic. (*producteur*)

***producer-shipper*** means a person licensed by the Commodity Board to produce a greenhouse vegetable crop and to market some or all of the greenhouse vegetable crop so produced directly to commercial trade channels, but unless specifically authorized by the Commodity Board, does not include marketing to a wholesaler, agency or another producer-shipper. (*producteur-expéditeur*)

***retailer*** means any person who sells, offers for sale or supplies vegetables directly to consumers from a fixed commercial establishment located in British Columbia. (*détaillant*)

***storage crop*** means potatoes, onions, parsnips, cabbage, carrots, beets, rutabagas, white turnips or any other crop designated by the Commodity Board. (*légumes d’hiver*)

***wholesaler*** means a person, other than an agency, who sells or offers for sale vegetables to a retailer, caterer, processor, or other wholesaler, or otherwise than directly to a consumer, but does not include a person who has no facilities to store or transport vegetables. (*grossiste*)
> SOR/2009-71, s. 1.





## Levies


**2** Unless otherwise exempted by the Commodity Board, all persons engaged in the production or marketing of vegetables shall pay the levies set out in the schedule.
> SOR/2009-71, s. 2(F).





## Method of Payment


**3** Every agency and processor shall deduct the applicable levy from the net proceeds due to each producer, and every agency and processor shall hold the funds in trust and shall remit them to the Commodity Board.



**4** If a producer is licensed as a producer-shipper, or exempted from the requirement to market vegetables through an agency or a processor, all applicable levies are due and payable directly to the Commodity Board.
> SOR/2009-71, s. 3(F).





## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Administration Levies</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Based on volume of crop</th>
<th>Based on area cultivated</th>
<th>Research and Industry Development</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Greenhouse Vegetable Crops</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>District I</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Producer under 5000 m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.075 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>$0.15 / du m<sup>2</sup></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Producer over 5000 m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.095 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>$0.15 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Producer-shipper</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.095 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>$0.15 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Districts II and III</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Producer under 5000 m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.075 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Producer over 5000 m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.095 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>Producer-shipper</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.095 / m<sup>2</sup></td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Storage Crops</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: fresh crops except potatoes</td>
<td>$2.81 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.110 / ton</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: fresh potatoes</td>
<td>$4.56 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.110 / ton</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: contract crops except potatoes</td>
<td>$2.26 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.110 / ton</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: contract potatoes</td>
<td>$4.01 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.110 / ton</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: cabbage, rutabagas and turnips</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.50 / ton</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Field Crops</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>District II</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers</td>
<td>$0.088 / case</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>$0.002 / ton</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Processing Crops</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower</td>
<td>$3.50 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: peas</td>
<td>$3.65 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: beans</td>
<td>$2.97 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: corn</td>
<td>$1.16 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td>All producers: strawberries</td>
<td>$3.60 / ton</td>
<td>nil</td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2009-71, s. 4.


