> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/92/520.md)

# Order Respecting an Increase in Compensation for Merchant Seamen and their Dependants, 1992

**SOR/92-520**

Enabling authorities: 
- [MERCHANT SEAMEN COMPENSATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/M/M-6.md)

Date registered: 27 August 1992

----------

Whereas the annexed order does not increase the amount or maximum rate of earnings payable to merchant seamen as compensation to an amount or maximum rate of earnings that exceeds the highest equivalent amount or maximum rate of earnings presently specified in the enactments of the Legislature of the Province of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island or Newfoundland relating to compensation of workers and their dependants for accidents occurring to workers during the course of their employment;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Labour, pursuant to section 35 of the [Merchant Seamen Compensation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/M/M-6.md), is pleased hereby to revoke the Merchant Seamen Compensation Order, 1986, made by Order in Council P.C. 1986-1051 of May 1, 1986<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup>, and to make the annexed Order respecting compensation for merchant seamen and their dependants, 1992, in substitution therefor.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/86-491, 1986 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 2081<br />




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Merchant Seamen Compensation Order, 1992.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order, ***Act*** means the [Merchant Seamen Compensation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/M/M-6.md). (*Loi*)




## Increase in Compensation


**3** The amount specified in paragraph 31(1)(a) of the Act is increased to $3,500.
> SOR/95-477, s. 1.




**4** The amount specified in paragraph 31(1)(b) of the Act is increased to $1,000.
> SOR/95-477, s. 1.




**5** The amount specified in paragraph 31(1)(d) of the Act is increased to $1,451.92.



**6** The amounts specified in paragraph 31(1)(e) of the Act are increased to $1,451.92, $161.18 and $164.93, respectively.



**7** The amount specified in paragraph 31(1)(f) of the Act is increased to $164.93.



**8** The amount specified in subsection 31(3) of the Act is increased to $16,868.50.



**9** The amount specified in paragraph 31(9)(a) of the Act is increased to $1,451.92.



**10** The amounts specified in paragraph 31(9)(b) of the Act are increased to $1,613.10, $161.18 and $1,613.10, respectively.



**11** The amount specified in section 40 of the Act is increased to $156.32.




## Maximum Rate of Earnings


**12** The maximum rate of earnings specified in subsection 41(1) of the Act is increased to $42,000.
> SOR/95-477, s. 2.



