> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2006/114.md)

# Office of the Governor General’s Secretary Employment Regulations

**SOR/2006-114**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md)

Date registered: 1 June 2006

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Canadian Heritage and the Public Service Commission, pursuant to section 21 of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md)<sup><a href='#fna_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Office of the Governor General’s Secretary Employment Regulations.

<a name='fna_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2003, c. 22, ss. 12 and 13<br />




## Application


**1** These Regulations apply to the positions designated by position numbers GGS-S-910 to 920 in the Office of the Governor General’s Secretary and the persons occupying them that are excluded from the application of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md), with the exception of the definitions ***Commission*** and ***public service*** in subsection 2(1), sections 17 to 21, 54, 55 and 68 to 72, subsection 111(1) and sections 112 to 116, 118, 120 to 122, 134 and 135 of that Act.
> SOR/2010-198, s. 1.




**1.1** Sections 17, 55, 72, 134 and 135 of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md) apply to the Governor General as if the Governor General was a deputy head.
> SOR/2010-198, s. 1.




**1.2** Sections 112 to 116, 118, 120 to 122 and 135 of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md) apply to a person occupying a position referred to in section 1 as if they were an employee.
> SOR/2010-198, s. 1.





## Dealing with Excluded Positions and Persons


**2** Positions referred to in section 1 may be filled by persons appointed by the Governor General or a person authorized to do so by the Governor General.



**3** 

- **(1)** A person occupying a position referred to in section 1 may only be dismissed or laid-off if the person is given at least one day’s notice.

- **(2)** The person may only be dismissed for cause.

- **(3)** The person may only be laid off if the services of the person are no longer required in the Office by reason of lack of work or the discontinuance of a function.



**4** A person occupying a position referred to in section 1 ceases to be so employed 30 days after the day on which the Governor General who held office at the time of the person’s appointment ceases to hold office.



**4.1** A person who has been employed for at least three years in one of the positions referred to in section 1, or in one or more of those positions consecutively, may
- **(a)** during a period of one year after they cease to be so employed, participate in an advertised appointment process for which the organizational criterion established under section 34 of the [Public Service Employment Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20ss.%2012,%2013%20.md) entitles all employees to be considered, as long as they meet any other criteria established under that section; and
- **(b)** make a complaint under section 77 of that Act.
> SOR/2010-198, s. 2.





## Repeal


**5** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force


**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


