> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2006/287.md)

# Regulations Implementing the United Nations Resolutions on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK)

**SOR/2006-287**

Enabling authorities: 
- [UNITED NATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md)

Date registered: 9 November 2006

----------

Whereas the Security Council of the United Nations, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, adopted Resolution 1718 (2006) on October 14, 2006;

And whereas it appears to the Governor in Council to be necessary to make regulations for enabling the measures set out in that Resolution to be effectively applied;

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to section 2 of the [United Nations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md), hereby makes the annexed Regulations Implementing the United Nations Resolution on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***armoured combat vehicles***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***arms and related material*** means any type of weapon, ammunition, military vehicle, military equipment or paramilitary equipment, and their spare parts. (*armes et matériel connexe*)

***attack helicopters***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***battle tanks***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***bulk cash*** means an amount of currency of any country whose total value is greater than $10,000 in Canadian currency. (*grande quantité d’argent en espèces*)

***Canadian*** means a citizen within the meaning of the [Citizenship Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-29.md) or a corporation incorporated by or continued under the laws of Canada or a province. (*Canadien*)

***combat aircraft***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***Committee of the Security Council*** means the Committee of the Security Council established under paragraph 12 of Security Council Resolution 1718. (*Comité du Conseil de sécurité*)

***Democratic People’s Republic of Korea***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***designated person*** means a person that is designated by the Committee of the Security Council under paragraph 8(d) or 12(e) of Security Council Resolution 1718 or by the Security Council under paragraph 8(d) of that resolution. (*personne désignée*)

***DPRK*** means the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and includes
- **(a)** any of its political subdivisions;
- **(b)** its government and any of its departments or a government or department of its political subdivisions; and
- **(c)** any of its agencies or any agency of its political subdivisions. (*RPDC*)

***entity*** means a corporation, a trust, a partnership, a fund, an unincorporated association or organization or a foreign state. (*entité*)

***Focal Point for De-listing*** means the Focal Point for De-listing established under Resolution 1730 (2006) of December 19, 2006 adopted by the Security Council. (*point focal pour les demandes de radiation*)

***HS*** means the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System developed and maintained by the World Customs Organization. (*SH*)

***large-calibre artillery systems***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***luxury goods*** includes jewelry, gems, precious and semi-precious stones, precious metals, lead crystal, tableware of porcelain or bone china, watches, cigarettes, alcoholic beverages, perfume, designer clothing and accessories, furs, rugs, tapestries, sporting goods, private aircraft, gourmet foods and ingredients, lobster, computers, televisions and other electronic devices, yachts, racing cars, personal watercraft, snowmobiles, automobiles and other motor vehicles, except those that are used for public transportation, that are used to transport people. (*articles de luxe*)

***Minister*** means the Minister of Foreign Affairs. (*ministre*)

***missiles and missile systems***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***national*** means an individual who possesses the nationality of the DPRK as determined in accordance with the laws of the DPRK. (*national*)

***official*** means an individual who
- **(a)** is or was employed in the service of Her Majesty in right of Canada or of a province;
- **(b)** occupies or occupied a position of responsibility in the service of Her Majesty in right of Canada or of a province; or
- **(c)** is or was engaged by or on behalf of Her Majesty in right of Canada or of a province. (*fonctionnaire*)

***person*** means an individual or an entity. (*personne*)

***property***[Repealed, SOR/2018-1, s. 1]

***resources contributing to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s weapons programme***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***resources contributing to the DPRK’s weapons programme***[Repealed, SOR/2016-278, s. 1]

***Security Council*** means the Security Council of the United Nations. (*Conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***Security Council Resolution 1718*** means Resolution 1718 (2006) of October 14, 2006 adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 1718 du conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution 1874*** means Resolution 1874 (2009) of June 12, 2009 adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 1874 du conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution 2087*** means Resolution 2087 (2013) of January 22, 2013, adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2087 du Conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution 2094*** means Resolution 2094 (2013) of March 7, 2013, adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2094 du Conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution 2270*** means Resolution 2270 (2016) of March 2, 2016, adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2270 du Conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution 2321*** means Resolution 2321 (2016) of November 30, 2016 adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2321 du Conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution 2356*** means Resolution 2356 (2017) of June 2, 2017 adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2356 du Conseil de sécurité*)

***Security Council Resolution 2371*** means Resolution 2371 (2017) of August 5, 2017 adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2371 du Conseil de sécurité*) 

***Security Council Resolution 2375*** means Resolution 2375 (2017) of September 11, 2017 adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2375 du Conseil de sécurité*) 

***Security Council Resolution 2397*** means Resolution 2397 (2017) of December 22, 2017 adopted by the Security Council. (*résolution 2397 du Conseil de sécurité*) 

***Security Council Resolutions*** means Security Council Resolution 1718, Security Council Resolution 1874, Security Council Resolution 2087, Security Council Resolution 2094, Security Council Resolution 2270, Security Council Resolution 2321, Security Council Resolution 2356, Security Council Resolution 2371, Security Council Resolution 2375 and Security Council Resolution 2397. (*résolutions du Conseil de sécurité*)

***technical assistance*** means any form of assistance, such as providing instruction, training, consulting services or technical advice or transferring know-how or technical data. (*aide technique*)

***technical data***[Repealed, SOR/2016-278, s. 1]

***warships***[Repealed, SOR/2009-232, s. 2]

***working day*** means a day that is neither a Saturday nor a holiday. (*jour ouvrable*)
> SOR/2009-232, s. 2; SOR/2013-219, s. 5; SOR/2016-278, s. 1; SOR/2018-1, s. 1; SOR/2018-2, s. 1.





## Application


**2** These Regulations are binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.




## Prohibitions



**Prohibited dealings and activities — designated persons**

**3** 

- **(1)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly
	- **(a)** deal in any property in Canada that is owned, held or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a designated person or by a person acting on behalf of or at the direction of a designated person;
	- **(b)** enter into or facilitate any transaction related to a dealing referred to in paragraph (a);
	- **(c)** provide any financial or related services in respect of a dealing referred to in paragraph (a);
	- **(d)** make available any property or provide any financial or related services to a designated person, to a person acting on behalf of or at the direction of a designated person or to an entity that is owned, held or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a designated person; or
	- **(e)** make available any property or provide any financial or related services for the benefit of any person or any entity referred to in paragraph (d).

**Cash**

- **(2)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly supply or transfer, directly or indirectly, any bulk cash that is destined for the DPRK, for any person in the DPRK or for any national or to knowingly receive any bulk cash from the DPRK, from any person in the DPRK or from any national.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 13(E); SOR/2013-219, ss. 6, 12(F); SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 2.





**Providing financial or related services**

**4** 

- **(1)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly provide financial or related services to the DPRK, to any person in the DPRK or to a person acting on behalf of or at the direction of the DPRK or any person in the DPRK that is intended to facilitate trade with the DPRK or to cause, facilitate or assist in any act or thing prohibited by these Regulations.

**Accepting financial or related services**

- **(2)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to accept any financial or related services from the DPRK, from any person in the DPRK or from a person acting on behalf of or at the direction of the DPRK or any person in the DPRK that is intended to cause, facilitate or assist in any act or thing prohibited by these Regulations.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 3; SOR/2013-219, s. 7; SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 3.





**Prohibited activity — entities referred to in subsection 11(1)**

**5** 

- **(1)** It is prohibited for any entity referred to in subsection 11(1) to open a new branch in the DPRK.

**Joint ventures and cooperative entities**

- **(2)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to form, maintain or operate a joint venture or a cooperative entity with the DPRK or with any person in the DPRK.
> SOR/2009-232, ss. 4, 13(E); SOR/2013-219, ss. 8, 12(F); SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 4.





**Specific products**

**6** 

- **(1)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly sell, supply or transfer, directly or indirectly, any of the following products, wherever situated, that are destined for the DPRK or for any person in the DPRK:
	- **(a)** arms and related material;
	- **(a.1)** the vehicles, aircraft, vessels and associated transport equipment referred to in HS codes 86 to 89;
	- **(b)** luxury goods;
	- **(c)** aviation fuel including aviation gasoline, naptha-type jet fuel, kerosene-type jet fuel and kerosene-type rocket fuel, except for aviation fuel provided to a DPRK passenger aircraft for its return flight to the DPRK;
	- **(d)** crude oil and refined petroleum products;
	- **(e)** condensates and natural gas liquids;
	- **(f)** the base metals and articles of base metal referred to in HS codes 72 to 83;
	- **(g)** the machinery, mechanical appliances and electrical equipment referred to in HS codes 84 and 85.

**DPRK’s weapons programme**

- **(2)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly sell, supply or transfer, directly or indirectly, any of the following products, wherever situated, that are destined for the DPRK or for any person in the DPRK:
	- **(a)** those that are listed in Information Circular INFCIRC/254/Rev.12/Part 1, entitled Communication Received from the Permanent Mission of the Czech Republic to the International Atomic Energy Agency regarding Certain Member States’ Guidelines for the Export of Nuclear Material, Equipment and Technology;
	- **(b)** those that are listed in Information Circular INFCIRC/254/Rev.9/Part 2, entitled Communication Received from the Permanent Mission of the Czech Republic to the International Atomic Energy Agency regarding Certain Member States’ Guidelines for Transfers of Nuclear-related Dual-use Equipment, Materials, Software and Related Technology;
	- **(c)** those that appear on the lists set out in the Security Council documents S/2006/814, S/2006/815, S/2006/853, S/2006/853/Corr.1, S/2009/205, S/2014/253, S/2016/308, S/2016/1069, S/2017/728, S/2017/760, S/2017/822 and S/2017/829;
	- **(d)** those that have been identified for the purpose of paragraph 8 of Security Council Resolution 1718 by the Committee of the Security Council or by the Security Council;
	- **(e)** those that appear in Annex III of Security Council Resolution 2321.

**Technical assistance**

- **(3)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly provide to the DPRK, to any person in the DPRK, or to any person acting on behalf of the DPRK, technical assistance related to the sale, supply, transfer, manufacture, use or maintenance of any of the products referred to in paragraph (1)(a) or subsection (2).

**Training to nationals**

- **(4)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly provide to any national teaching or training in disciplines which could contribute to the proliferation of nuclear activities or the development of nuclear weapon delivery systems in the DPRK, including in advanced studies of physics, materials science, computer simulation and related computer sciences, geospatial navigation and in nuclear, chemical, mechanical, electrical, industrial, aerospace and aeronautical engineering and related disciplines.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 5; SOR/2013-219, s. 9; SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 5; SOR/2018-2, s. 2.




**6.1** [Repealed, SOR/2016-278, s. 2]



**6.2** [Repealed, SOR/2013-219, s. 9]



**6.3** [Repealed, SOR/2016-278, s. 2]




**Prohibited acquisitions — products**

**7** 

- **(1)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly import, purchase or acquire any vessel or any of the products referred to in paragraph 6(1)(a) or subsection 6(2), wherever situated, from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK.

**Coal, minerals and wood**

- **(2)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly import, purchase or acquire any of the following products, wherever situated, from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK:
	- **(a)** any salt, sulphur, earths and stone, plastering materials, lime, cement and other materials referred to in HS code 25;
	- **(b)** coal, iron, iron ore, gold, titanium ore, vanadium ore, rare earth minerals, copper, nickel, silver, zinc, lead and lead ore;
	- **(c)** any wood, articles of wood and wood charcoal referred to in HS code 44.

**Statues**

- **(3)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly import, purchase or acquire statues, wherever situated, from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK.

**Seafood**

- **(4)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly import, purchase or acquire seafood, including fish, crustaceans, mollusks and other aquatic invertebrates, wherever situated, or to acquire fishing rights related to such products by transfer or other means, from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK.

**Food and agricultural products**

- **(5)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly import, purchase or acquire the edible vegetables, roots and tubers referred to in HS code 7, the edible fruit, nuts and peel of citrus fruit or of melons referred to in HS code 8 and the oil seeds, oleaginous fruits, miscellaneous grains, seeds and fruit, industrial or medicinal plants, straw and fodder referred to in HS code 12, wherever situated, from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK.

**Textiles**

- **(6)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly import, purchase or acquire textiles, including fabrics and partially or fully assembled apparel products, wherever situated, from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK.

**Machinery, appliances and electrical equipment**

- **(7)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly import, purchase or acquire the machinery, mechanical appliances and electrical equipment referred to in HS codes 84 and 85, wherever situated, from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK.

**Technical assistance and training**

- **(8)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly receive, from the DPRK, from any person in the DPRK or from any national, any technical assistance or training related to the purchase, acquisition, manufacture, use or maintenance of any of the products referred to in paragraph 6(1)(a) or subsection 6(2).
> SOR/2009-232, s. 13(E); SOR/2013-219, s. 10; SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 6; SOR/2018-2, s. 3.





**Canadian vessel or aircraft**

**8** 

- **(1)** It is prohibited for any owner or master of a Canadian vessel, as defined in section 2 of the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md), any operator of an aircraft registered in Canada or any Canadian owner or master of a vessel or Canadian operator of an aircraft to knowingly carry, cause to be carried or permit to be carried any of the products referred to in subsection 6(1) or (2) or any bulk cash, wherever situated, that is destined for the DPRK or for any person in the DPRK.

**Carriage from DPRK — products referred to in subsections 7(1) to (7)**

- **(2)** It is also prohibited for any such owner, master or operator to knowingly carry, cause to be carried or permit to be carried, from the DPRK, any of the products referred to in any of subsections 7(1) to (7) or any bulk cash.

**Transshipments**

- **(3)** It is also prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly transship, cause to be transshipped or permit to be transshipped, to or from DPRK-flagged vessels, any product destined to or from the DPRK.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 13(E); SOR/2013-219, s. 12(F); SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 7; SOR/2018-2, s. 4.





**Maintaining vessel**

**9** 

- **(1)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly provide products or services for the operation or maintenance of any vessel, including with respect to stevedoring and lighterage, if the vessel has been identified by the competent authorities as one that is carrying any of the products referred to in any of subsections 6(1) and (2) and 7(1) to (7), unless it is necessary to do so for the safeguarding of human life or for the vessel to return to its port of origin.

**Crew services**

- **(2)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly provide a Canadian-flagged vessel or aircraft, or crew services for any vessel or aircraft, to the DPRK, to any person in the DPRK, to a designated person, to a person acting on behalf of or at the direction of a designated person or to an entity that is owned, held or controlled by a designated person.

**Crew services from DPRK**

- **(3)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly procure vessel and aircraft crew services from the DPRK or from any person in the DPRK.

**Vessels**

- **(4)** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to
	- **(a)** register a vessel in the DPRK;
	- **(b)** obtain authorization for a vessel to fly the DPRK flag;
	- **(c)** own, lease or operate, directly or indirectly, any DPRK-flagged vessel;
	- **(d)** insure or reinsure any DPRK-flagged vessel or any vessel owned, held, controlled or operated, directly or indirectly, by the DPRK or any other vessel identified by the competent authorities as one that has transported any of the products referred to in any of subsections 6(1) and (2) and 7(1) to (7); or
	- **(e)** provide any vessel classification, certification or related service for any DPRK-flagged vessel or any vessel owned, held or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the DPRK.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 6(F); SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 8; SOR/2018-2, s. 5.





**Assisting a prohibited act or thing**

**10** It is prohibited for any person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada to knowingly do anything that causes, facilitates or assists in, or is intended to cause, facilitate or assist in, any act or thing prohibited by section 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9.
> SOR/2016-278, s. 2.





## Obligations



**Duty to determine**

**11** 

- **(1)** The following entities must determine on a continuing basis whether they are in possession or control of property that is owned, held or controlled by or on behalf of a designated person:
	- **(a)** ***authorized foreign banks***, as defined in section 2 of the [Bank Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md), in respect of their business in Canada or banks to which that Act applies;
	- **(b)** cooperative credit societies, savings and credit unions and caisses populaires regulated by a provincial Act and associations regulated by the [Cooperative Credit Associations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2048.md);
	- **(c)** ***foreign companies***, as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Insurance Companies Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2047.md), in respect of their insurance business in Canada;
	- **(d)** ***companies***, ***provincial companies*** and ***societies***, as those terms are defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Insurance Companies Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2047.md);
	- **(e)** fraternal benefit societies regulated by a provincial Act in respect of their insurance activities and insurance companies and other entities regulated by a provincial Act that are engaged in the business of insuring risks;
	- **(f)** companies to which the [Trust and Loan Companies Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2045.md) applies;
	- **(g)** trust companies regulated by a provincial Act;
	- **(h)** loan companies regulated by a provincial Act;
	- **(i)** entities that engage in any activity described in paragraph 5(h) of the [Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2000/c.%2017.md) if the activity involves the opening of an account for a client; and
	- **(j)** entities authorized under provincial legislation to engage in the business of dealing in securities or to provide portfolio management or investment counselling services.

**Duty to disclose — supervising and regulating agencies**

- **(2)** Every entity referred to in subsection (1) must disclose, every month, to the principal agency or the body that supervises or regulates it under federal or provincial law, whether it is in possession or control of any property referred to in subsection (1) and, if so, the number of persons or dealings involved and the total value of the property.

**Immunity**

- **(3)** No proceedings under the [United Nations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md) and no civil proceedings lie against a person for a disclosure made in good faith under subsection (2).
> SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 9.




**11.1** [Repealed, SOR/2016-278, s. 2]



**11.2** [Repealed, SOR/2016-278, s. 2]




**Duty to disclose — RCMP or CSIS**

**12** 

- **(1)** Every person in Canada and every Canadian outside Canada must disclose without delay to the Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or to the Director of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service
	- **(a)** the existence of property in their possession or control that they have reason to believe is owned, held or controlled by or on behalf of a designated person; and
	- **(b)** any information about a transaction or proposed transaction in respect of property referred to in paragraph (a).

**Immunity**

- **(2)** No proceedings under the [United Nations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md) and no civil proceedings lie against a person for a disclosure made in good faith under subsection (1).
> SOR/2009-232, s. 8; SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 10(F).





## Applications



**Exemption**

**13** 

- **(1)** A person that wishes to do an act or thing that is prohibited under these Regulations may, before doing the act or thing, apply to the Minister in writing for a certificate to exempt the act or thing from the application of the Regulations.

**Certificate**

- **(2)** The Minister may issue the certificate if the Security Council did not intend that such an act or thing be prohibited or if it is established that the requirements of the Security Council Resolutions have been met and, if required by those resolutions, that the Committee of the Security Council has approved the act or thing in advance.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 9(E); SOR/2016-278, s. 2; SOR/2018-1, s. 11.





**Exemption for property**

**14** 

- **(1)** A person whose property has been affected by the application of section 3 may apply to the Minister in writing for a certificate to exempt the property from the application of that section if the property
	- **(a)** is necessary for basic or extraordinary expenses; or
	- **(b)** is subject to a lien, mortgage or security interest, to a hypothec or prior claim, to a charge or to a judicial, administrative or arbitral decision.

**Certificate — subsection (1)**

- **(2)** If it is established in accordance with Security Council Resolution 1718 that the property is necessary for basic or extraordinary expenses or is subject to a lien, mortgage or security interest, to a hypothec or prior claim, to a charge or to a judicial, administrative or arbitral decision, the Minister must issue a certificate within the following deadlines:
	- **(a)** within 15 working days after receiving the application, in the case of property that is necessary for basic expenses, if the Committee of the Security Council does not oppose the application;
	- **(b)** within 30 working days after receiving the application, in the case of property that is necessary for extraordinary expenses, if the Committee of the Security Council approves the application; and
	- **(c)** within 90 days after receiving the application, in the case of property that is subject to a lien, mortgage or security interest, to a hypothec or prior claim, to a charge or to a judicial, administrative or arbitral decision that
		- **(i)** was created or issued before the coming into force of these Regulations,
		- **(ii)** is not for the benefit of a designated person, and
		- **(iii)** has been brought to the attention of the Committee of the Security Council by the Minister.
> SOR/2016-278, s. 2.





**Mistaken identity**

**15** 

- **(1)** A person in Canada or any Canadian outside Canada whose name is the same as or similar to the name of a designated person and that claims not to be that designated person may apply to the Minister in writing for a certificate stating that they are not that designated person.

**Determination by Minister**

- **(2)** Within 45 days after receiving the application, the Minister must,
	- **(a)** if he or she is satisfied that the applicant is not the designated person, issue the certificate; or
	- **(b)** if he or she is not so satisfied, provide notice to the applicant of his or her determination.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 10; SOR/2016-278, s. 2.




**15.1** [Repealed, SOR/2016-278, s. 2]




## Disclosure of Information



**Disclosure by official**

**16** 

- **(1)** An official may, for the purpose of responding to a request from the Security Council, the Committee of the Security Council, the Panel of Experts established under Security Council Resolution 1874 or the Focal Point for De-listing, disclose personal information to the Minister.

**Disclosure by Minister**

- **(2)** The Minister may, for the purpose of administering or enforcing these Regulations or fulfilling an obligation under the Security Council Resolutions, disclose personal information to the Security Council, the Committee of the Security Council, the Panel of Experts established under Security Council Resolution 1874 or the Focal Point for De-listing.
> SOR/2009-232, s. 12; SOR/2016-278, s. 2.





## Legal Proceedings



**Prohibition — legal proceedings**

**17** No legal proceedings lie in Canada at the instance of the Government of the DPRK, of any person in the DPRK, of a designated person or of any person claiming through or acting on behalf of any such person in connection with any contract or other dealing if its performance was prevented in any way by these Regulations.
> SOR/2016-278, s. 2.



