> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2006/43.md)

# Proclamation Declaring that the Government Corporations Operation Act is Applicable to BDC Capital Inc.

**SOR/2006-43**

Enabling authorities: 
- [GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS OPERATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md)

Date registered: 16 February 2006

----------

MICHAËLLE JEAN

[L.S.]

Canada

Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories QUEEN, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith.

To all to whom these presents shall come or whom the same may in any way concern,

*Greeting:*

JOHN H. SIMS

*Deputy Attorney General*

A Proclamation

Whereas section 6 of the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) provides that the Act applies to a corporation only from the date of issue of a proclamation by the Governor in Council declaring the Act to be applicable to that corporation;

Whereas BDC Capital Inc. is a corporation incorporated under the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-44.md) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Business Development Bank of Canada;

Whereas, pursuant to subsection 3(4) of the [Business Development Bank of Canada Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1995/c.%2028.md), the Business Development Bank of Canada is for all purposes an agent of the Crown and therefore, in accordance with the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), all of the issued shares of BDC Capital Inc. are owned by Her Majesty in right of Canada;

And whereas, by Order in Council P.C. 2006-22 of January 30, 2006, the Governor in Council directed that a proclamation do issue declaring that the Government Corporations Operation Act is applicable to BDC Capital Inc.;

Now know you that We, by and with the advice of Our Privy Council for Canada and pursuant to Order in Council P.C. 2006-22 of January 30, 2006, do by this Our proclamation declare that the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) is applicable to BDC Capital Inc.

Of all which Our loving subjects and all others whom these presents may concern are hereby required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.

In testimony whereof, We have caused this Our proclamation to be published and the Great Seal of Canada to be hereunto affixed. Witness: Our Right Trusty and Well-beloved Michaëlle Jean, Chancellor and Principal Companion of Our Order of Canada, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Military Merit, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Merit of the Police Forces, Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada.

At Our Government House, in Our City of Ottawa, this sixteenth day of February in the year of Our Lord two thousand and six and in the fifty-fifth year of Our Reign.

By Command,

SUZANNE HURTUBISE

*Deputy Registrar General of Canada*


