> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/137.md)

# Ash-Free Zone Regulations

**SOR/2004-137**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PLANT PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1990/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 19 May 2004

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 47 <sup><a href='#footnotea'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Plant Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1990/c.%2022.md)<sup><a href='#footnoteb'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Ash-Free Zone Regulations.

<a name='footnotea'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1993, c. 34, s. 103<br />

<a name='footnoteb'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1990, c. 22<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Plant Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1990/c.%2022.md). (*Loi*)

***Agency*** means the Canadian Food Inspection Agency established by section 3 of the [Canadian Food Inspection Agency Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%206.md). (*Agence*)

***ash*** means any tree or plant or part of a tree or plant in the genus *Fraxinus*, living or dead, that is capable of harbouring, supporting or transporting a specified pest. (*frêne*)

***movement certificate*** means a document, issued under the Act and signed by an inspector, that authorizes the movement of things within Canada. (*certificat de circulation*)

***regulated area*** means the area set out in the schedule. (*zone réglementée*)

***regulated article*** means ash or any product of ash, including nursery stock, trees, logs, lumber, wood, wood chips, bark or bark chips. (*produit réglementé*)

***specified pest*** means an emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipennis) in any of its life stages. (*parasite nuisible*)




## Requirements


**2** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 3, every person who is the owner or has the possession, care or control of a regulated article in the regulated area must destroy it or move it in accordance with a movement certificate.

- **(2)** No person who owns or has the management or control of land in the regulated area shall allow an ash tree to grow from seed, sprout or culture on that land.

- **(3)** No person shall — from seed, by transplant or otherwise — grow, raise, culture or produce an ash tree within the regulated area.

- **(4)** No person, other than an inspector, shall
	- **(a)** move a specified pest or regulated article out of the regulated area except in accordance with a movement certificate;
	- **(b)** move into the regulated area a specified pest or regulated article that originated from an area outside the regulated area except in accordance with a movement certificate; or
	- **(c)** move a regulated article through the regulated area unless
		- **(i)** the article is in a container that is sealed or closed in a manner that prevents the escape of, access to, removal of or release of the article or any specified pest, and
		- **(ii)** the article is conveyed through the regulated area without any stopping that is not authorized in writing by an inspector in accordance with a movement certificate.




## Exception


**3** Section 2 does not apply to a regulated article
- **(a)** that has all bark and the underlying wood removed to a minimum depth of 2.5 cm;
- **(b)** that has been chipped to less than 2.5 cm in size in any dimension;
- **(c)** that has been heat-treated to a minimum core temperature of 56°C for at least 30 minutes; or
- **(d)** that is moved in accordance with a movement certificate and maintained in a container that is sealed or closed in a manner that prevents the escape of, access to, removal of or release of any specified pest in the container for a period of at least one year.




## Coming into Force


**4** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 1)**
## Regulated Area
IN THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO, more particularly described as follows:


ALL THAT PART OF the Municipality of Chatham-Kent within an area commencing at the confluence of the north bank of the Thames River and the shore of Lake St. Clair;


THENCE eastwards along the north bank of the Thames River to Baptiste Creek;


THENCE southwards along the east bank of Baptiste Creek to a point of intersection with a line extending from Dashwheel Road;


THENCE southeastwards along said line and Dashwheel Road to Chatham-Kent Regional Road 36;


THENCE southwestwards along Chatham-Kent Regional Road 36 to Chatham-Kent Regional Road 1;


THENCE southwards along Chatham-Kent Regional Road 1 to Canal Street East in the town of Tilbury;


THENCE northeastwards along Canal Street East to Ella Street South;


THENCE southeastwards along Ella Street South and Chatham-Kent Regional Road 5 extended through by a line to a point of intersection with the north shore of Lake Erie;


THENCE eastwards along the shore of Lake Erie to a point of intersection with a line extending from Chatham-Kent Regional Road 7;


THENCE northwestwards along said line and Chatham-Kent Regional Road 7 to Chatham-Kent 3rd Line;


THENCE northwards along Chatham-Kent Regional Road 7 to Chatham-Kent Regional Road 36;


THENCE northeastwards along Chatham-Kent Regional Road 36 to Chatham-Kent Regional Road 35;


THENCE northwestwards along Chatham-Kent Regional Road 35 and Jacob Road to St. Philippes Line;


THENCE southwestwards along St. Philippes Line and a line extending through to a point of intersection with the east shore of Lake St. Clair; and


THENCE southwards along the shoreline of Lake St. Clair to the point of commencement.



