> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/239.md)

# Alberta Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2004-239**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 26 October 2004

----------

The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Alberta, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), hereby makes the annexed Alberta Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

October 19, 2004

Lieutenant Governor of Alberta

Lois Hole




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***aboriginal police service*** means a first nations police service established in accordance with subsection 5(1) of the Alberta Police Act. (*service de police autochtone*)

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***Alberta Police Act*** means the Police Act, Revised Statutes of Alberta 2000, c. P-17, as amended from time to time. (*loi albertaine sur la police*)

***municipal police service*** means a police service established under section 27 of the Alberta Police Act. (*service de police municipal*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)

***regional police service*** means a police service established under section 24 of the Alberta Police Act. (*service de police régional*)

***special constable*** means a special constable appointed under section 42 of the Alberta Police Act. (*agent de police spécial*)




## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**2** The following persons are authorized in the Province of Alberta to collect information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP;
- **(b)** a police officer or special constable appointed to, or employed by, a regional police service or a municipal police service; and
- **(c)** a special constable appointed to, or employed by, an aboriginal police service.




## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**3** Persons who are registrars at the Sex Offender Information Registration Centre Alberta, administered by RCMP “K” Division, are authorized in the Province of Alberta to register information for the purposes of the Act.




## Registration Centres


**4** 

- **(1)** The following places are designated as registration centres in the Province of Alberta:
	- **(a)** each RCMP detachment;
	- **(b)** the headquarters of each regional police service or municipal police service, other than that of the municipal police service of the City of Calgary;
	- **(c)** the administration office of the Calgary police service; and
	- **(d)** the headquarters of each aboriginal police service.

- **(2)** The following are designated as the areas served by the registration centres:
	- **(a)** for an RCMP detachment, the area served by the detachment;
	- **(b)** for the headquarters of regional police services or municipal police services, the municipalities served by those police services;
	- **(c)** for the administration office of the Calgary police service, the City of Calgary; and
	- **(d)** for the headquarters of an aboriginal police service, the area served by that police service.




## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_star'>[*]</a></sup>**5** These Regulations come into force on the day on which the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force.

<a name='fn_star'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force December 15, 2004, *see* SI/2004-157.]<br />


