> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/284.md)

# Radiocommunication Act (Subsection 4(1) and Paragraph 9(1)(b)) Exemption Order (Security, Safety and International Relations), No. 2004-1

**SOR/2004-284**

Enabling authorities: 
- [RADIOCOMMUNICATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-2.md)

Date registered: 29 November 2004

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Industry, pursuant to subsection 3(2)<sup><a href='#footnotea'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Radiocommunication Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-2.md)<sup><a href='#footnoteb'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Radiocommunication Act (Subsection 4(1) and Paragraph 9(1)(b)) Exemption Order (Security, Safety and International Relations), No. 2004-1.

<a name='footnotea'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 7, s. 37(2)<br />

<a name='footnoteb'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1989, c. 17, s. 2<br />




## Interpretation


**1** In this Order, ***Act*** means the [Radiocommunication Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/R/R-2.md).




## Exemption


**2** 

- **(1)** Subject to sections 3 and 4, Her Majesty in right of Canada, as represented by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, is exempt from the application of subsection 4(1) and paragraph 9(1)(b) of the Act for the period beginning on November 30, 2004 and ending on December 2, 2004.

- **(2)** An exemption under subsection (1) is limited to that part of
	- **(a)** Ontario and Quebec within the rectangle defined by points having the following geographic coordinates:
		- **(i)** NW corner at 45.8°N latitude and 76.4°W longitude,
		- **(ii)** NE corner at 45.8°N latitude and 75.3°E longitude,
		- **(iii)** SE corner at 45.0°S latitude and 75.3°E longitude, and
		- **(iv)** SW corner at 45.0°S latitude and 76.4°W longitude; and
	- **(b)** Nova Scotia within the rectangle defined by points having the following geographic coordinates:
		- **(i)** NW corner at 45.0°N latitude and 63.8°W longitude,
		- **(ii)** NE corner 45.0°N latitude and 63.4°E longitude,
		- **(iii)** SE corner 44.4°S latitude and 63.4°E longitude, and
		- **(iv)** SW corner 44.4°S latitude and 63.8°W longitude.




## Conditions


**3** An exemption in respect of subsection 4(1) of the Act applies only if the radio apparatus referred to in that subsection is installed, operated or possessed in order to carry out interference with or obstruction of a radiocommunication in accordance with subsection 4(2) of this Order for the purpose of security, safety or international relations.



**4** 

- **(1)** An exemption in respect of paragraph 9(1)(b) of the Act applies only if the radiocommunication is interfered with or obstructed for the purpose of security, safety or international relations.

- **(2)** Every reasonable effort shall be made to confine or restrict to the extent possible interference with or obstruction of a radiocommunication referred to in subsection (1) to the smallest physical area, the fewest number of frequencies and the minimum duration required to accomplish the objectives of the interference or obstruction.




## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


