> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/304.md)

# Saskatchewan Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2004-304**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 13 December 2004

----------

The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Saskatchewan, on the recommendation of the Saskatchewan Minister of Justice and Attorney General, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the attached Saskatchewan Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 10<br />

December 8, 2004


<p>Lynda Haverstock<br />Lieutenant Governor of Saskatchewan<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***police service*** has the same meaning as in paragraph 2(q) of The Police Act, 1990, Statutes of Saskatchewan, 1990-91, c. P-15.01, as amended from time to time. (*service de police*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)




## Report and Notification


**2** 

- **(1)** A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of Saskatchewan may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(1)(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act by telephone.

- **(2)** The sex offender may provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act in person or by telephone.
> SOR/2015-231, s. 1.





## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**3** The following persons are authorized in the Province of Saskatchewan to collect information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP who serves in Saskatchewan or a member of a police service; and
- **(b)** a person employed by the RCMP, or by a police service, whose duties include the collection of information under the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**4** Any person who is authorized under section 3 to collect information is authorized in the Province of Saskatchewan to register information for the purposes of the Act.




## Registration Centres


**5** 

- **(1)** The following places are designated as registration centres in the Province of Saskatchewan:
	- **(a)** the Saskatchewan Sex Offender Central Registration Centre, administered by RCMP “F” Division and located at 6101 Dewdney Avenue, Regina;
	- **(b)** each RCMP detachment;
	- **(c)** the municipal police service office in
		- **(i)** Estevan,
		- **(ii)** Moose Jaw,
		- **(iii)** Prince Albert,
		- **(iv)** Regina,
		- **(v)** Saskatoon, and
		- **(vi)** Weyburn; and
	- **(d)** each office of the File Hills First Nations Police Service.

- **(2)** The designated area of service of each registration centre is the entire Province of Saskatchewan.
> SOR/2015-231, s. 2.





## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup>**6** These Regulations come into force on the later of the day on which the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force and the day on which these Regulations are registered.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force December 15, 2004, *see* SI/2004-157.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
[Repealed, SOR/2015-231, s. 3]


