> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/307.md)

# Prince Edward Island Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2004-307**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 13 December 2004

----------

The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Prince Edward Island, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Prince Edward Island Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 10<br />

December 7, 2004

J. Léonce Bernard

Lieutenant Governor of Prince Edward Island




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)




## Report and Notification by Telephone


**1.1** 

- **(1)** A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of Prince Edward Island may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(1)(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone.

- **(2)** For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not remove the requirement for the sex offender to report in person under paragraph 4.1(1)(c) of the Act.
> SOR/2018-4, s. 1.





## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**2** The following persons are authorized in the Province of Prince Edward Island to collect information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP; and
- **(b)** a member of a police department as defined in paragraph 1(n) of the Police Act, R.S.P.E.I. 1988, c P-11.1, as amended from time to time.
> SOR/2018-4, s. 2.





## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**3** The following persons are authorized in the Province of Prince Edward Island to register information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP; and
- **(b)** a person employed by the RCMP whose duties include the registration of information collected under the Act.




## Registration Centre


**4** The RCMP “L” Division headquarters located at 450 University Avenue, Charlottetown, Queens County, is designated as a registration centre in the Province of Prince Edward Island, and its designated area of service is the entire province.
> SOR/2018-4, s. 3.





## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_Ind8B7F_hq_15801'>[*]</a></sup>**5** These Regulations come into force on the day on which the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force.

<a name='fn_Ind8B7F_hq_15801'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force December 15, 2004, *see* SI/2004-157.]<br />


