> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/310.md)

# Manitoba Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2004-310**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 13 December 2004

----------

The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Manitoba, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), S.C. 2004, c. 10, makes the attached Manitoba Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

December 8, 2004


<p>John Harvard<br />Lieutenent Governor of Manitoba<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***aboriginal police service*** means a first nations police service designated under paragraph 44(c) of The Law Enforcement Review Act, Continuing Consolidation of the Statutes of Manitoba, c. L75, as amended from time to time.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***MSOIRC*** means the Manitoba Sex Offender Information Registration Centre, located in RCMP Division “D” headquarters at 1091 Portage Avenue, Winnipeg. (*Bureau d’inscription*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)




## Report and Notification by Telephone


**2** 

- **(1)** A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of Manitoba may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone at 1-877-700-1222.

- **(2)** For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not remove the requirement for the sex offender to report in person under paragraph 4.1(c) of the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**3** The following persons are authorized in the Province of Manitoba to collect information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP;
- **(a.1)** a person employed at the MSOIRC whose duties include the collection of information under the Act;
- **(b)** a police officer or special constable appointed to, or employed by, a municipal police service; and
- **(c)** a special constable appointed to, or employed by, an aboriginal police service.
> SOR/2007-8, s. 1.





## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**4** Persons employed at the MSOIRC whose duties include the registration of information are authorized in the Province of Manitoba to register that information for the purposes of the Act.




## Registration Centres


**5** 

- **(1)** The places set out in the schedule are designated as registration centres in the Province of Manitoba.

- **(2)** The designated area of service of each registration centre is the entire Province of Manitoba.




## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fnstar_e'>[*]</a></sup>**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force.

<a name='fnstar_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force December 15, 2004, *see* SI/2004-157.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Subsection 5(1))**
#### REGISTRATION CENTRES
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Designated Place</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>The MSOIRC</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>The RCMP detachment in any of the following locations:
- Berens River
- Bloodvein
- Carberry
- Carman
- Chemawawin
- Churchill
- Cross Lake
- Dauphin
- Falcon Beach
- Fisher Branch
- Flin Flon
- Gillam
- Gimli
- Gods Lake Narrows
- Grand Rapids
- Gypsumville
- Headingley
- Island Lake
- Killarney
- Lac du Bonnet
- Leaf Rapids
- Little Grand Rapids
- Lundar
- Lynn Lake
- Manitou
- Minnedosa
- Moose Lake
- Morris
- Neepawa
- Nelson House
- Norway House
- Oakbank
- Oxford House
- Poplar River
- Portage la Prairie
- Powerview
- Pukatawagan
- Russell
- Selkirk
- Shamattawa
- Shoal Lake
- Snow Lake
- Souris
- St. Pierre-Jolys
- Ste. Rose du Lac
- Steinbach
- Stonewall
- Swan River
- The Pas
- Thompson
- Virden
- Wabowden
- Waywayseecappo
- Winnipegosis

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>The municipal police service headquarters in any of the following locations:
- Altona
- Brandon
- East St. Paul
- Morden
- Rivers
- Ste. Anne
- Winkler

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>The following offices of the Dakota Ojibway Police Service:
- The Birdtail Sioux first nation office
- The Brandon office
- The Canupawakpa Dakota first nation office
- The Roseau River Anishinabe first nation office
- The Sandy Bay first nation office
- The Sioux Valley Dakota first nation office

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2007-8, s. 2; SOR/2009-16, s. 1.


