> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/321.md)

# Nunavut Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2004-321**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 17 December 2004

----------

The Commissioner of Nunavut, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Nunavut Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 10<br />

Dated at Iqaluit on December 10, 2004


<p>Peter Irniq<br />Commissioner of Nunavut<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)




## Report and Notification by Telephone


**2** 

- **(1)** A sex offender whose main residence is located in Nunavut may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone.

- **(2)** For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not remove the requirement for the sex offender to report in person under paragraph 4.1(c) of the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**3** The following persons are authorized in Nunavut to collect information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP; and
- **(b)** a person employed by the RCMP whose duties include the collection of information for the purposes of the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**4** Any person who is authorized under section 3 to collect information is authorized in Nunavut to register information for the purposes of the Act.




## Registration Centres


**5** An RCMP detachment set out in the schedule is designated as a registration centre in Nunavut, and its designated area of service is the area served by the detachment.




## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2004-321_e_hq_6626'>[*]</a></sup>**6** These Regulations come into force on the later of the day on which the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force and the day on which these Regulations are registered.

<a name='fn_SOR-2004-321_e_hq_6626'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force December 17, 2004.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 5)**

## RCMP Detachments

- Arctic Bay detachment
- Arviat detachment
- Baker Lake detachment
- Cambridge Bay detachment
- Cape Dorset detachment
- Chesterfield Inlet detachment
- Clyde River detachment
- Coral Harbour detachment
- Gjoa Haven detachment
- Grise Fiord detachment
- Hall Beach detachment
- Igloolik detachment
- Iqaluit detachment
- Kimmirut detachment
- Kugaaruk detachment
- Kugluktuk detachment
- Pangnirtung detachment
- Pond Inlet detachment
- Qikiqtarjuaq detachment
- Rankin Inlet detachment
- Repulse Bay detachment
- Resolute Bay detachment
- Sanikiluaq detachment
- Taloyoak detachment
- Whale Cove detachment

