> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2004/322.md)

# Newfoundland and Labrador Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2004-322**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 17 December 2004

----------

The Lieutenant Governor in Council of Newfoundland and Labrador, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Newfoundland and Labrador Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 10<br />

December 13, 2004


<p>Edward Moxon Roberts<br />Lieutenant Governor of Newfoundland and Labrador<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***NLSOIRC*** means the Newfoundland and Labrador Sex Offender Information Registration Centre administered by RCMP “B” Division headquarters. (*BIRDSTNL*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)




## Report and Notification by Telephone


**2** A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone to the NLSOIRC.




## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**3** The following persons are authorized in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador to collect information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP;
- **(b)** a police officer within the meaning of paragraph 2(l) of the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary Act, 1992, Statutes of Newfoundland and Labrador, c. R-17, as amended from time to time; and
- **(c)** a person employed at the NLSOIRC whose duties include collection of information under the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**4** Persons employed at the NLSOIRC whose duties include the registration of information are authorized in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador to register information for the purposes of the Act.




## Registration Centres


**5** 

- **(1)** The places set out in the schedule are designated as registration centres in the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.

- **(2)** The designated area of service for each registration centre is the entire Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.




## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2004-322_e_hq_6728'>[*]</a></sup>**6** These Regulations come into force on the later of the day on which the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force and the day on which these Regulations are registered.

<a name='fn_SOR-2004-322_e_hq_6728'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force December 17, 2004.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Subsection 5(1))**
#### REGISTRATION CENTRES
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Designated Place</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>The NLSOIRC</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>The following RCMP district offices:
- Avalon East District Office, Holyrood
- Bay St. George District Office, Stephenville
- Burin Peninsula District Office, Marystown
- Clarenville-Bonavista District Office, Clarenville
- Deer Lake District Office, Deer Lake
- Gander-Lewisporte District Office, Gander
- Grand Falls-Windsor District Office, Grand Falls-Windsor
- Labrador District Office, Goose Bay
- Northern Peninsula District Office, Port Saunders
- Placentia-Whitbourne District Office, Placentia
- Trinity-Conception District Office, Harbour Grace

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>The RCMP detachment in any of the following locations:
- Bell Island
- Burgeo
- Cartwright
- Channel Port Aux Basques
- Fogo Island
- Forteau
- Harbour Breton
- Hopedale
- Makkovick
- Mary’s Harbour
- Nain
- Natuashish
- Rigolet
- Sheshatshiu
- Springdale
- St. Anthony
- Twillingate

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>The headquarters of the Royal Newfoundland Constabulary in any of the following locations:
- Corner Brook
- Labrador City
- St. John’s

</td>
</tr>
</table>


