> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/92/158.md)

# Order Respecting the Distribution of Pages to be Added to, or to Replace Pages of, an Edition of the Consolidation of the Public General Statutes of Canada in Loose-Leaf Form Without Charge to Certain Persons or Classes of Persons

**SI/92-158**

Enabling authorities: 
- STATUTE REVISION ACT

- [MISCELLANEOUS STATUTE LAW AMENDMENT ACT, 1991](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1992/c.%201.md)

Date registered: 23 September 1992

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice, pursuant to subsection 9.1(1)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the Statute Revision Act and section 132(2) of the [Miscellaneous Statute Law Amendment Act, 1991](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1992/c.%201.md)<sup><a href='#footenote2_e'>[**]</a></sup>, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Order respecting the distribution of pages to be added to, or to replace pages of, an edition of the consolidation of the public general statutes of Canada in loose-leaf form without charge to certain persons or classes of persons, effective January 15, 1991.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup> *</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 1, s. 132(1)<br />

<a name='footenote2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 1<br />




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Statutes of Canada Loose-leaf Consolidation Updates Distribution Order.




## Distribution


**2** Copies of pages to be added to, or to replace pages of, as well as the binders to be used for, an edition of the consolidation of the public general statutes of Canada in loose-leaf form shall be distributed without charge to the persons or classes of persons set out in the schedule.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
<table>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>The chairperson of the Standing Joint Committee for the Scrutiny of Regulations.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Members of the judiciary of Canada, including provincial court judges and magistrate judges, who have received the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1985 in loose-leaf form.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>The chief or senior legislative counsel of each province.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>The chief librarian of any court house in Canada.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>The chief librarian of any law school in Canada.</td>
</tr>
</table>


