> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/95/37.md)

# General Import Permit No. 100 — Eligible Agriculture Goods

**SOR/95-37**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 30 December 1994

----------

The Secretary of State for External Affairs, pursuant to subsection 8(1.1)<sup><a href='#footnote1star_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General permit authorizing the importation of certain eligible agricultural goods, effective on the later of the days on which section 74 and subsection 108(1) of An Act to implement the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, being chapter 47 of the Statutes of Canada, 1994, come into force.

<a name='footnote1star_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 108(1)<br />

Ottawa, Ontario, December 29, 1994


<p>ANDRÉ OUELLET<br />*Secretary of State for External Affairs*<br /></p>



**1** [Repealed, SOR/97-48, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** In this Permit, ***eligible agricultural goods*** means the goods set out in the schedule. (marchandises agricoles admissibles)




## General


**3** Subject to sections 5, 7 and 8, a resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import eligible agricultural goods into Canada from any country.
> SOR/95-401, s. 1; SOR/96-58, s. 1.




**4** Where goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be accounted for in the prescribed form under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), the person who accounts for the goods shall inscribe on that form the statement “Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 100 — Eligible Agricultural Goods” or “Importé en vertu de la Licence générale d’importation no 100 — Marchandises agricoles admissibles”.
> SOR/95-401, s. 1.




**5** A resident of Canada who imports eligible agricultural goods under the authority of this Permit may not import those goods under a permit issued under section 8.3 of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md).



**6** [Repealed, SOR/96-58, s. 2]



**7** This Permit does not authorize the importation of eligible agricultural goods set out in items 68 to 98 of the schedule, during the period in which [General Import Permit No. 20 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/95/400.md) is in force in respect of the goods referred to in those items.
> SOR/95-401, s. 2.




**8** Notwithstanding section 7, this Permit applies to eligible agricultural goods set out in items 68 to 98 of the schedule that were imported but neither accounted for nor placed in a bonded warehouse in accordance with section 5 of [General Import Permit No. 20 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/95/400.md).
> SOR/95-401, s. 2.





### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
## Eligible Agricultural Goods



## Broiler Hatching Chicks and Eggs

**1** Live broilers for domestic production, being fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus*, and weighing not more than 185 g, that are classified under tariff item No. 0105.11.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**2** Hatching eggs, for broilers, of fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus*, that are classified under tariff item No. 0407.00.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Chicken: Live, Meat and Products

**3** Live fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus* (other than those for breeding purposes and other than started pullets and spent fowls), weighing more than 185 g, that are classified under tariff item No. 0105.92.92 or 0105.93.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**4** Meat and edible offal of fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus*, fresh, chilled or frozen, not cut in pieces (other than spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.11.92 or 0207.12.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**5** Cuts of meat and edible offal, including livers, of fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus*, fresh, chilled or frozen (other than spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.13.92 (bone in), 0207.13.93 (boneless), 0207.14.22, 0207.14.92 (bone in) or 0207.14.93 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**6** Fat of fowls (not rendered or otherwise extracted) of the species *Gallus Domesticus*, fresh, chilled or frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0209.00.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**7** Meat of fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus*, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0210.99.12 (bone in) or 0210.99.13 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**8** Sausages and similar products, made from meat, meat offal or blood of fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus*, and food preparations based on those products (other than in cans or glass jars or made from spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 1601.00.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**9** Prepared or preserved liver paste, made from fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus* (other than in cans or glass jars), that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.20.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**10** Prepared meals, made from fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus* (other than specially defined mixtures and meals made from spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 1602.32.13 (bone in) or 1602.32.14 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**11** Prepared or preserved meat or meat offal of fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus* (other than prepared meals, fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus* in cans or glass jars, specially defined mixtures and products made from spent fowls) that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.32.94 (bone in) or 1602.32.95 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Turkey: Live, Meat and Products

**12** Live turkeys, weighing more than 185 g, that are classified under tariff item No. 0105.99.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**13** Meat and edible offal of turkeys, fresh, chilled or frozen, not cut in pieces, that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.24.12, 0207.24.92, 0207.25.12 or 0207.25.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**14** Cuts of meat and edible offal, including livers, of turkeys, fresh, chilled or frozen, that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.26.20 (bone in), 0207.26.30 (boneless), 0207.27.12, 0207.27.92 (bone in) or 0207.27.93 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**15** Turkey fat (not rendered or otherwise extracted), fresh, chilled or frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0209.00.24 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**16** Meat of turkeys, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0210.99.15 (bone in) or 0210.99.16 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**17** Sausages and similar products, made from meat, meat offal or blood of turkeys, and food preparations based on those products (other than in cans or glass jars), that are classified under tariff item No. 1601.00.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**18** Prepared or preserved liver paste, made from turkeys (other than in cans or glass jars), that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.20.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**19** Prepared meals, made from turkeys (other than specially defined mixtures), that are classified under tariff item No. 1602.31.13 (bone in) or 1602.31.14 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**20** Prepared or preserved meat or meat offal of turkeys (other than prepared meals and specially defined mixtures and other than in cans or glass jars) that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.31.94 (bone in) or 1602.31.95 (boneless) in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Beef and Veal

**21** Carcasses and half-carcasses of bovine animals, fresh, chilled or frozen, that do not originate in Chile or a NAFTA country and are classified under tariff item No. 0201.10.20 or 0202.10.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**22** Cuts of meat of bovine animals, fresh, chilled or frozen, with bone in, that does not originate in Chile or a NAFTA country and is classified under tariff item No. 0201.20.20 or 0202.20.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**23** Boneless meat of bovine animals, fresh, chilled or frozen, that do not originate in Chile or a NAFTA country and are classified under tariff item No. 0201.30.20 or 0202.30.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Pork

**23.1** Other cuts of swine, frozen, originating in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden or the United Kingdom, that are classified under tariff item No. 0203.29.00 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Milk and Cream

**24** Milk and cream, neither concentrated nor containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 6 per cent, that are classified under tariff item No. 0401.10.20 or 0401.20.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**24.1** Cream, neither concentrated nor containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6 per cent, that is classified under tariff item No. 0401.30.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**25** Milk and cream, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, in powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1.5 per cent, classified under tariff item No. 0402.10.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**26** Milk and cream, in powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1.5 per cent, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, classified under tariff item No. 0402.21.12 or 0402.21.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**27** Milk and cream, in powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1.5 per cent, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, classified under tariff item No. 0402.29.12 or 0402.29.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**28** Preparations (other than preparations classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.31 or 2106.90.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)) containing more than 15 per cent by weight of milk fat, but less than 50 per cent by weight of dairy content, and suitable for use as butter substitutes, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.34 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**29** Milk and cream, not in powder, granules or other solid forms, concentrated (whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter) or not concentrated (containing added sugar or other sweetening matter), that are classified under tariff item No. 0402.91.20 or 0402.99.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Buttermilk

**30** Powdered buttermilk, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa, that is classified under tariff item No. 0403.90.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**31** Buttermilk (other than powdered buttermilk), curdled milk and cream, kephir and other fermented or acidified milk and cream, whether or not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa, that are classified under tariff item No. 0403.90.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Dairy Blends

**32** Products consisting of natural milk constituents, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 0404.90.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**32.1** Powdered whey, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, that is classified under tariff item No. 0404.10.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**33** Mixes and doughs, for the preparation of bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares classified under heading No. 19.05 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), containing more than 25 per cent by weight of butterfat and not put up for retail sale, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.20.12 or 1901.20.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**34** Milk, cream or butter substitutes containing 50 per cent or more by weight of dairy content, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**35** Food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) (other than ice cream mixes or ice milk mixes), containing more than 10 per cent but less than 50 per cent on a dry weight basis of milk solids, not in retail packaging, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.34 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**35.1** Food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) (other than ice cream mixes or ice milk mixes), containing 50 per cent or more on a dry weight basis of milk solids, not in retail packaging, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.54 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**36** Food preparations, not elsewhere specified or included, containing 50 per cent or more by weight of dairy content, that are classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.94 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**37** Non-alcoholic beverages containing milk (other than chocolate milk) and containing 50 per cent or more by weight of dairy content and not put up for retail sale, that are classified under tariff item No. 2202.90.43 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**38** Complete feeds and feed supplements, including concentrates, containing, in the dry state, 50 per cent or more by weight of non-fat milk solids (other than preparations classified under tariff item No. 2309.10.00, 2309.90.10 or 2309.90.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)), not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 2309.90.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Ice Cream

**39** Chocolate ice cream mixes and ice milk mixes that are classified under tariff item No. 1806.20.22 or 1806.90.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**40** Ice cream mixes and ice milk mixes, being food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), containing more than 10 per cent but less than 50 per cent on a dry weight basis of milk solids, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**40.1** Ice cream mixes and ice milk mixes, being food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), containing 50 per cent or more on a dry weight basis of milk solids, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.52 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**41** Ice cream and other edible ice, whether or not containing cocoa, other than flavoured ice and ice sherbets, that are classified under tariff item No. 2105.00.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Eggs and Egg Products

**42** Eggs of fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus*, in the shell, fresh, preserved or cooked (other than hatching eggs for broilers), that are classified under tariff item No. 0407.00.19 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**43** Egg yolks, fresh, dried, cooked by steaming or by boiling in water, moulded, frozen or otherwise preserved, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, that are classified under tariff item No. 0408.11.20 or 0408.19.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**44** Birds’ eggs, not in the shell, fresh, dried, cooked by steaming or by boiling in water, moulded, frozen or otherwise preserved, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, that are classified under tariff item No. 0408.91.20 or 0408.99.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**45** Egg preparations, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.52 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**46** Egg albumin that is classified under tariff item No. 3502.11.20 or 3502.19.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Margarine

**47** Margarine (excluding liquid margarine) and substitutes for butter, that are classified under tariff item No. 1517.10.20 or 1517.90.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Cheeses

**48** Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese, including whey cheese and curd, that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.10.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**49** Cheddar cheese and Cheddar types of cheese, grated or powdered, that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.20.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**50** Grated or powdered cheese of all kinds, other than Cheddar and Cheddar types, that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.20.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**51** Processed cheese, not grated or powdered, that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.30.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**52** Blue-veined cheese that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.40.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**53** Cheddar cheese and Cheddar types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**54** Camembert cheese and Camembert types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**55** Brie cheese and Brie types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**56** Gouda cheese and Gouda types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.42 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**57** Provolone cheese and Provolone types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.52 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**58** Mozzarella cheese and Mozzarella types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.62 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**59** Swiss/Emmental cheese and Swiss/Emmental types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.72 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**60** Gruyère cheese and Gruyère types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.82 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**61** Havarti cheese and Havarti types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**62** Parmesan cheese and Parmesan types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.94 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**63** Romano cheese and Romano types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.96 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**64** All other cheeses that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.99 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Yogurt

**65** Yogurt, whether or not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa, that is classified under tariff item No. 0403.10.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Butter and Others

**66** Butter that is classified under tariff item No. 0405.10.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**66.1** Dairy spreads that are classified under tariff item No. 0405.20.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**67** Fats and oils derived from milk, other than butter or dairy spreads, that are classified under tariff item No. 0405.90.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Wheat

**68** Wheat and meslin that are classified under tariff item No. 1001.10.20 or 1001.90.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Wheat Products

**69** Wheat or meslin flour that is classified under tariff item No. 1101.00.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**70** Wheat groats, meal and pellets, that are classified under tariff item No. 1103.11.20 or 1103.20.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**71** Wheat grains otherwise worked (for example, hulled, rolled, flaked, pearled, sliced or kibbled) that are classified under tariff item No. 1104.19.12 or 1104.29.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**72** Wheat germ, whole, rolled, flaked or ground, that is classified under tariff item No. 1104.30.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**73** Wheat starch that is classified under tariff item No. 1108.11.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**74** Wheat gluten, whether or not dried, that is classified under tariff item No. 1109.00.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**75** Mixes and doughs, for the preparation of bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares classified under heading No. 19.05 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the Customs Tariff, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.20.14, 1901.20.15 or 1901.20.24 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**76** Uncooked pasta, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, not stuffed or otherwise prepared, containing eggs, that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.11.21 or 1902.11.29 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**77** Uncooked pasta, containing flour and water only (if the flour content is 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat), that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.19.22 or 1902.19.23 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**78** Uncooked pasta, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, not stuffed or otherwise prepared, that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.19.12, 1902.19.92 or 1902.19.93 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**79** Cooked or pre-cooked pasta, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, not stuffed and without meat, that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.30.12, 1902.30.31 or 1902.30.39 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**80** Prepared foods, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal products, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.10.21 or 1904.10.29 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**80.1** Prepared foods, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from mixtures of unroasted cereal flakes and roasted cereal flakes or swelled cereals, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.20.21, 1904.20.29 or 1904.20.62 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**81** Cereals, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, in grain form or in the form of flakes or other worked grains (except flour and meal), pre-cooked or otherwise prepared, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.30.21, 1904.30.62, 1904.90.21, 1904.90.29 or 1904.90.62 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**82** Crispbread, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that is classified under tariff item No. 1905.10.21, 1905.10.29, 1905.10.51, 1905.10.59 or 1905.10.72 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**83** Sweet biscuits, waffles and wafers, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.31.22, 1905.31.23, 1905.31.92, 1905.31.93 or 1905.32.93 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**84** Rusks, toasted bread and similar toasted products, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.40.31, 1905.40.39, 1905.40.61 or 1905.40.69 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**85** Bread (other than bread leavened with yeast and unleavened bread for sacramental purposes), containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that is classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.32, 1905.90.33 or 1905.90.35 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**86** Biscuits, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.43, 1905.90.44 or 1905.90.45 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**87** Pretzels, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.62 or 1905.90.63 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**88** Wheat bran, sharps and other residues, whether or not in the form of pellets, derived from the sifting, milling or other working of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 2302.30.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Barley

**89** Barley that is classified under tariff item No. 1003.00.12 or 1003.00.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Barley Products

**90** Barley flour that is classified under tariff item No. 1102.90.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**91** Barley groats, meal and pellets, that are classified under tariff item No. 1103.19.12 or 1103.20.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**92** Barley grains otherwise worked (for example, hulled, rolled, flaked, pearled, sliced or kibbled) that are classified under tariff item No. 1104.19.22 or 1104.29.22 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**93** Malt, whether or not roasted, that is classified under tariff item No. 1107.10.12, 1107.10.92, 1107.20.12 or 1107.20.92 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**94** Barley starch that is classified under tariff item No. 1108.19.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**95** Malt extract that is classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**96** Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of barley that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.10.41 or 1904.10.49 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**96.1** Prepared foods, of barley, obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from mixtures of unroasted cereal flakes and roasted cereal flakes or swelled cereals, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.20.41, 1904.20.49 or 1904.20.64 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**97** Barley cereals, in grain form or in the form of flakes or other worked grains (except flour and meal), pre-cooked or otherwise prepared, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.90.40 or 1904.90.64 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**98** Barley bran, sharps and other residues, whether or not in the form of pellets, derived from the sifting, milling or other working of barley, that are classified under tariff item No. 2302.40.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).







## Cut Roses and Rose Buds

**99** 

- **(1)** In this item, ***imported from israel or another CIFTA beneficiary*** has the meaning assigned by the [Regulations Defining Certain Expressions for the Purposes of the Customs Tariff](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/97/62.md).

- **(2)** Cut roses and rose buds, fresh, suitable for bouquets or for ornamental purposes, that are imported from Israel or another CIFTA beneficiary and that are classified under tariff item No. 0603.10.11 or under heading No. 98.04 or 98.26 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).




>  SOR/95-401, ss. 3 to 11; SOR/96-58, ss. 3 to 11; SOR/97-48, ss. 3 to 6; SOR/97-79, ss. 1 to 3; SOR/97-343, s. 1; SOR/98-64, ss. 1 to 9; SOR/2002-93, ss. 1 to 6; SOR/2002-97, ss. 1, 2; SOR/2005-219, s. 1(E).


