> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/95/38.md)

# General Import Permit No. 7 — Turkeys and Turkey Products for Personal Use

**SOR/95-38**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 30 December 1994

----------

Whereas turkeys and turkey products have been included on the [Import Control List](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20604.md);

And Whereas the Secretary of State for External Affairs has determined an import access quantity for turkeys and turkey products pursuant to subsection 6.2(1)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md);

Therefore, the Secretary of State for External Affairs, pursuant to section 10<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby cancels the [Import of Turkeys and Turkey Products Permit](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/81/122.md), issued on February 4, 1981<sup><a href='#footnote3_e'>[***]</a></sup>, and, pursuant to subsection 8.3(3)<sup><a href='#footnote4_e'>[****]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General permit authorizing the importation of turkeys and turkey products for personal use, effective on the later of the days on which sections 74, 106, 109 and 111 of An Act to implement the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, being chapter 47 of the Statutes of Canada, 1994, come into force.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>   *</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 106<br />

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>  **</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 111<br />

<a name='footnote3_e'><sup> ***</sup></a>: SOR/81-122, 1981 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 456<br />

<a name='footnote4_e'><sup>****</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 109<br />

Ottawa, Ontario, December 29, 1994


<p>ANDRÉ OUELLET<br />*Secretary of State for External Affairs*<br /></p>



**1** [Repealed, SOR/97-43, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** In this Permit,

***turkey products*** means the goods set out in items 2 to 10 of the schedule; (*produits de dindons et dindes*)

***turkeys*** means the goods set out in item 1 of the schedule. (*dindons et dindes*) 
> SOR/96-53, s. 1.





## General


**3** Any resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import into Canada for the personal use of the importer and the importer’s household
- **(a)** one turkey; or
- **(b)** turkey products in a quantity not exceeding 10 kg in net weight for each importation.



**4** Where any goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), that form shall contain the statement “Imported under the authority of *General Import Permit No. 7 — Turkeys and Turkey Products for Personal Use*” or *“Importé en vertu de la *Licence générale d’importation no 7 — Dindons et dindes et produits de dindons et dindes pour usage personnel*”*.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
**1** Live turkeys, weighing more than 185 g, that are classified under tariff item No. 0105.99.11 or heading No. 98.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**2** Meat and edible offal of turkeys, fresh, chilled or frozen, not cut in pieces, that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.24.11, 0207.24.91, 0207.25.11 or 0207.25.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**3** Cuts of meat and edible offal, including livers, of turkeys, fresh, chilled or frozen, that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.26.10, 0207.27.11 or 0207.27.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**4** Turkey fat (not rendered or otherwise extracted), fresh, chilled or frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0209.00.23 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**5** Meat of turkeys, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0210.99.14 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**6** Sausages and similar products, made from meat, meat offal or blood of turkeys, and food preparation based on those products (other than in cans or glass jars), that are classified under tariff item No. 1601.00.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**7** Prepared or preserved liver paste, made from turkeys (other than in cans or glass jars), that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.20.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**8** Prepared meals, made from turkeys (other than specially defined mixtures), that are classified under tariff item No. 1602.31.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**9** Prepared or preserved meat or meat offal of turkeys (other than prepared meals and specially defined mixtures and other than in cans or glass jars) that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.31.93 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**10** Goods that are classified under heading No. 98.04 or 98.26 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) and that are otherwise classifiable under a tariff item referred to in any of items 2 to 9 of this schedule.


> SOR/95-399, s. 1; SOR/96-53, ss. 2, 3; SOR/97-43, ss. 3, 4; SOR/98-82, ss. 1, 2; SOR/2002-91, s. 1.


