> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/95/39.md)

# General Import Permit No. 2 — Chickens and Chicken Products for Personal Use

**SOR/95-39**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 30 December 1994

----------

Whereas chickens and chicken products have been included on the [Import Control list](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20604.md);

And Whereas the Secretary of State for External Affairs has determined an import access quantity for chickens and chicken products pursuant to subsection 6.2(1)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md);

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 106<br />

Therefore, the Secretary of State for External Affairs, pursuant to section 10<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby cancels the [Import of Chickens Permit](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/79/72.md)<sup><a href='#footnote3_e'>[***]</a></sup>, issued on January 5, 1979<sup><a href='#footnote4_e'>[****]</a></sup>, and, pursuant to subsection 8.3(3)<sup><a href='#footnote5_e'>[*****]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General permit authorizing the importation of chickens and chicken products for personal use, effective on the latest of the days on which sections 74, 106, 109 and 111 of An Act to implement the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, being chapter 47 of the Statutes of Canada, 1994, come into force.

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 111<br />

<a name='footnote3_e'><sup>***</sup></a>: SI/83-181, 1983 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 3969<br />

<a name='footnote4_e'><sup>****</sup></a>: SOR/79-72, 1979 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 256<br />

<a name='footnote5_e'><sup>*****</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 109<br />

Ottawa, Ontario, December 29, 1994


<p>ANDRÉ OUELLET<br />*Secretary of State for External Affairs*<br /></p>



**1** [Repealed, SOR/97-41, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** In this Permit, ***chickens and chicken products*** means the goods set out in the schedule. (*volaille et produits de volaille*)




## General


**3** Any resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import into Canada for the personal use of the importer and the importer’s household, chickens and chicken products in a quantity not exceeding 10 kg in net weight for each importation.



**4** Where any goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), that form shall contain the statement “Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 2 — Chickens and Chicken Products for Personal Use” or “*Importé en vertu de la Licence générale d’importation no 2 — Volaille et produits de volaille pour usage personnel*”.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
**1** Live fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus* (other than those for breeding purposes and other than started pullets and spent fowls), weighing more than 185 g, that are classified under tariff item No. 0105.94.91, in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**2** Meat and edible offal of fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus*, fresh, chilled or frozen, not cut in pieces (other than spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.11.91 or 0207.12.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**3** Cuts of meat and edible offal, including livers, of fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus*, fresh, chilled or frozen (other than spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.13.91, 0207.14.21 or 0207.14.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**4** Fat of fowls (not rendered or otherwise extracted) of the species *Gallus Domesticus*, fresh, chilled or frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0209.90.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**5** Meat of fowls of the species *Gallus domesticus*, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0210.99.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**6** Sausages and similar products, made from meat, meat offal or blood of fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus*, and food preparations based on those products (other than in cans or glass jars or made from spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 1601.00.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**7** Prepared or preserved liver paste, made from fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus* (other than in cans or glass jars), that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.20.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**8** Prepared meals, made from fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus* (other than specially defined mixtures and meals made from spent fowls), that are classified under tariff item No. 1602.32.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**9** Prepared or preserved meat or meat offal of fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus* (other than prepared meals, fowls of the species *Gallus Domesticus* in cans or glass jars, specially defined mixtures and products made from spent fowls) that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.32.93 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**10** Goods that are classified under heading No. 98.04 or 98.26 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) and that are otherwise classifiable under a tariff item referred to in any of items 1 to 9 of this schedule.


> SOR/95-398, ss. 1, 2; SOR/96-51, ss. 1, 2; SOR/97-41, ss. 3, 4; SOR/98-69, ss. 1, 2; SOR/2002-89, s. 1; SOR/2007-189, s. 1; SOR/2011-306, s. 1; SOR/2017-184, s. 1(F).


