> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/95/40.md)

# General Import Permit No. 1 — Dairy Products for Personal Use

**SOR/95-40**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 30 December 1994

----------

Whereas dairy products have been included on the Import Control list;

And Whereas the Secretary of State for External Affairs has determined an import access quantity for dairy products pursuant to subsection 6.2(1)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md);

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 106<br />

Therefore, the Secretary of State for External Affairs, pursuant to section 10<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby cancels the [Import of Dairy Products for Personal Use Permit](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20623.md), C.R.C., c. 623, and, pursuant to subsection 8(1.1)<sup><a href='#footnote3_e'>[***]</a></sup> and subsection 8.3(3)<sup><a href='#footnote4_e'>[****]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General permit authorizing the importation of dairy products for personal use, effective on the latest of the days on which sections 74 and 106, subsection 108(1) and sections 109 and 111 of An Act to implement the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, being chapter 47 of the Statutes of Canada, 1994, come into force.

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 111<br />

<a name='footnote3_e'><sup>***</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 108(1)<br />

<a name='footnote4_e'><sup>****</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 109<br />

Ottawa, Ontario, December 29, 1994


<p>ANDRÉ OUELLET<br />*Secretary of State for External Affairs*<br /></p>



**1** [Repealed, SOR/97-40, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** In this Permit, ***dairy products*** means the goods set out in the schedule. (*produits laitiers*)




## General


**3** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), any resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import into Canada for the personal use of the importer and the importer’s household dairy products not exceeding $20 in value for each importation.

- **(2)** The $20 limit in value for each importation does not apply in respect of the dairy products set out in item 5 of the schedule.
> SOR/2000-41, s. 1.




**4** Where any goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), that form shall contain the statement “Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 1 — Dairy Products for Personal Use" or “*Importé en vertu de la Licence générale d’importation no 1 — Produits laitiers pour usage personnel*".




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
**1. to 4** [Repealed, SOR/96-50, s. 1]


**5** Milk and cream, neither concentrated nor containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 6 per cent, that are classified under tariff item No. 0401.10.10 or 0401.20.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**5.1** Cream, neither concentrated nor containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6 per cent, that is classified under tariff item No. 0401.30.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**6** Milk and cream, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, in powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1.5 per cent, classified under tariff item No. 0402.10.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**7** Milk and cream, in powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1.5 per cent, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, classified under tariff item No. 0402.21.11 or 0402.21.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**8** Milk and cream, in powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1.5 per cent, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, classified under tariff item No. 0402.29.11 or 0402.29.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**9** Preparations (other than preparations classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.31 or 2106.90.32 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)) containing more than 15 per cent by weight of milk fat, but less than 50 per cent by weight of dairy content, and suitable for use as butter substitutes, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.33 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**10** Milk and cream, not in powder, granules or other solid forms, concentrated (whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter) or not concentrated (containing added sugar or other sweetening matter), that are classified under tariff item No. 0402.91.10 or 0402.99.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**11** Powdered buttermilk, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa, that is classified under tariff item No. 0403.90.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**12** Buttermilk (other than powdered buttermilk), curdled milk and cream, kephir and other fermented or acidified milk and cream, whether or not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa, that are classified under tariff item No. 0403.90.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**13** Products consisting of natural milk constituents, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 0404.90.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**13.1** Powdered whey, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter, that is classified under tariff item No. 0404.10.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**14** Mixes and doughs, for the preparation of bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares classified under heading No. 19.05 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), containing more than 25 per cent by weight of butterfat and not put up for retail sale, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.20.11 or 1901.20.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**15** Milk, cream or butter substitutes containing 50 per cent or more by weight of dairy content, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**16** Food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) (other than ice cream mixes or ice milk mixes), containing more than 10 per cent but less than 50 per cent on a dry weight basis of milk solids, not in retail packaging, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.33 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**16.1** Food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) (other than ice cream mixes or ice milk mixes), containing 50 per cent or more on a dry weight basis of milk solids, not in retail packaging, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.53 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**17** Food preparations, not elsewhere specified or included, containing 50 per cent or more by weight of dairy content, that are classified under tariff item No. 2106.90.93 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**18** Non-alcoholic beverages containing milk (other than chocolate milk) and containing 50 per cent or more by weight of dairy content and not put up for retail sale, that are classified under tariff item No. 2202.90.42 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**19** Complete feeds and feed supplements, including concentrates, containing 50 per cent or more by weight, in the dry state, of non-fat milk solids (other than preparations classified under tariff item No. 2309.10.00, 2309.90.10 or 2309.90.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)), not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 2309.90.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**20** Chocolate ice cream mix and ice milk mix that are classified under tariff item No. 1806.20.21 or 1806.90.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**21** Ice cream mixes and ice milk mixes, being food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), containing more than 10 per cent but less than 50 per cent on a dry weight basis of milk solids, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**21.1** Ice cream mixes and ice milk mixes, being food preparations of goods of heading Nos. 04.01 to 04.04 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), containing 50 per cent or more on a dry weight basis of milk solids, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.51 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**22** Ice cream and other edible ice, whether or not containing cocoa, other than flavoured ice and ice sherbets, that are classified under tariff item No. 2105.00.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**23** Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese, including whey cheese and curd, that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.10.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**24** Cheddar cheese and Cheddar types of cheese, grated or powdered, that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.20.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**25** Grated or powdered cheese of all kinds, other than Cheddar and Cheddar types, that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.20.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**26** Processed cheese, not grated or powdered, that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.30.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**27** Blue-veined cheese that is classified under tariff item No. 0406.40.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**28** Cheddar cheese and Cheddar types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**29** Camembert cheese and Camembert types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**30** Brie cheese and Brie types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**31** Gouda cheese and Gouda types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.41 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**32** Provolone cheese and Provolone types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.51 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**33** Mozzarella cheese and Mozzarella types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.61 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**34** Swiss/Emmental cheese and Swiss/Emmental types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.71 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**35** Gruyère cheese and Gruyère types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.81 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**36** Havarti cheese and Havarti types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**37** Parmesan cheese and Parmesan types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.93 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**38** Romano cheese and Romano types of cheese that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.95 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**39** All other cheeses that are classified under tariff item No. 0406.90.98 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**40** Yogurt, whether or not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa, that is classified under tariff item No. 0403.10.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**41** Butter that is classified under tariff item No. 0405.10.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**41.1** Dairy spreads that are classified under tariff item No. 0405.20.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**42** Fats and oils derived from milk, other than butter or dairy spreads, that are classified under tariff item No. 0405.90.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**43** Goods that are classified under heading No. 98.04 or 98.26 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) and that are otherwise classifiable under a tariff item referred to in any of items 5 to 42 of this schedule.
>  SOR/95-397, ss. 1 to 6; SOR/96-50, ss. 1 to 4; SOR/97-40, ss. 3, 4; SOR/97-78, ss. 1, 2; SOR/98-70, ss. 1 to 3.




