> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/95/400.md)

# General Import Permit No. 20 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products

**SOR/95-400**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 3 August 1995

----------

Whereas wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products have been included on the [Import Control List](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20604.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-95-400_e_hq_5285'>[*]</a></sup>, C.R.C., c. 604;

<a name='fn_SOR-95-400_e_hq_5285'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/89-251, 1989 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 2569<br />

And Whereas the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 6.2(1)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-95-400_e_hq_5286'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), has determined an import access quantity for wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products;

<a name='fn_SOR-95-400_e_hq_5286'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 106<br />

Therefore, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 8.3(2)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-95-400_e_hq_5287'>[***]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General Permit authorizing the importation of wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products.

<a name='fn_SOR-95-400_e_hq_5287'><sup>***</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 109<br />

Ottawa, August 3, 1995


<p>ANDRÉ OUELLET<br />*Minister of Foreign Affairs*<br /></p>



**1** [Repealed, SOR/97-47, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** In this Permit,

***barley and barley products*** means the goods set out in items 22 to 31 of the schedule; (*orge et sous-produits de l’orge*)

***bonded warehouse*** has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md); (*entrepôt de stockage*)

***wheat and wheat products*** means the goods set out in items 1 to 21 of the schedule. (*froment (blé) et sous-produits du froment (blé)*)




## General


**3** Subject to section 5, a resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import into Canada wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products from any country.



**4** Where goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be accounted for in the prescribed form under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), the person who accounts for the goods, or who places the goods in a bonded warehouse under subsection 19(2) of that Act, shall inscribe on the prescribed form the statement “Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 20 — Wheat and Wheat Products and Barley and Barley Products” or “Importé en vertu de la Licence générale d’importation no 20 — Froment (blé) et sous-produits du froment (blé) et orge et sous-produits de l’orge”.



**5** 

- **(1)** This Permit only applies to wheat and wheat products and barley and barley products that are accounted for under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), or placed in a bonded warehouse under subsection 19(2) of that Act, on or before the day, set out in a notice to be issued by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on which, in the opinion of that Minister, the import access quantity for the period concerned, determined in accordance with subsection 6.2(1) of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md) in respect of those goods, will have been filled.

- **(2)** In this section, ***period concerned*** means a period of 12 months beginning on August 1 and ending July 31 of the following year.




## Coming into Force


**6** 

- **(1)** Item 9 of the schedule comes into force on the day on which tariff item No. 1902.11.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) comes into force.

- **(2)** Item 19 of the schedule comes into force, in respect of goods that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.42 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), on the day on which that tariff item No. comes into force.
> SOR/98-65, s. 1.





### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**

## Wheat

**1** Wheat and meslin that are classified under tariff item No. 1001.11.10, 1001.19.10, 1001.91.10 or 1001.99.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).



## Wheat Products

**2** Wheat or meslin flour that is classified under tariff item No. 1101.00.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**3** Wheat groats, meal and pellets, that are classified under tariff item No. 1103.11.10 or 1103.20.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**4** Wheat grains otherwise worked (for example, hulled, rolled, flaked, pearled, sliced or kibbled) that are classified under tariff item No. 1104.19.11 or 1104.29.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**5** Wheat germ, whole, rolled, flaked or ground, that is classified under tariff item No. 1104.30.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**6** Wheat starch that is classified under tariff item No. 1108.11.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**7** Wheat gluten, whether or not dried, that is classified under tariff item No. 1109.00.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**8** Mixes and doughs, for the preparation of bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares classified under heading No. 19.05 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1901.20.13 or 1901.20.23 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**9** Uncooked pasta, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, not stuffed or otherwise prepared, containing eggs, that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.11.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**10** Uncooked pasta, containing flour and water only (where the flour content is 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat), that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.19.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the[Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**11** Uncooked pasta, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, not stuffed or otherwise prepared, that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.19.11 or 1902.19.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**12** Cooked or pre-cooked pasta, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, not stuffed and without meat, that is classified under tariff item No. 1902.30.11 or 1902.30.20 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**13** Prepared foods, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal products, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.10.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**13.1** Prepared foods, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from mixtures of unroasted cereal flakes and roasted cereal flakes or swelled cereals, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.20.10 or 1904.20.61 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**14** Cereals, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, in grain form or in the form of flakes or other worked grains (except flour and meal), pre-cooked or other wise prepared, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.30.10, 1904.30.61, 1904.90.10 or 1904.90.61 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**15** Crispbread, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that is classified under tariff item No. 1905.10.10, 1905.10.40 or 1905.10.71 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**16** Sweet biscuits, waffles and wafers, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.31.21, 1905.31.91 or 1905.32.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**17** Rusks, toasted bread and similar toasted products, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.40.20 or 1905.40.50 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**18** Bread (other than bread leavened with yeast and unleavened bread for sacramental purposes), containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that is classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.31 or 1905.90.34 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**19** Biscuits, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.41 or 1905.90.42 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**20** Pretzels, containing 25 per cent or more by weight of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 1905.90.61 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**21** Wheat bran, sharps and other residues, whether or not in the form of pellets, derived from the sifting, milling or other working of wheat, that are classified under tariff item No. 2302.30.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).



## Barley

**22** Barley that is classified under tariff item No. 1003.10.11, 1003.10.91, 1003.90.11 or 1003.90.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).



## Barley Products

**23** Barley flour that is classified under tariff item No. 1102.90.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**24** Barley groats, meal and pellets, that are classified under tariff item No. 1103.19.11 or 1103.20.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**25** Barley grains otherwise worked (for example, hulled, rolled, flaked, pearled, sliced or kibbled) that are classified under tariff item No. 1104.19.21 or 1104.29.21 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**26** Malt, whether or not roasted, that is classified under tariff item No. 1107.10.11, 1107.10.91, 1107.20.11 or 1107.20.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**27** Barley starch that is classified under tariff item No. 1108.19.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**28** Malt extract that is classified under tariff item No. 1901.90.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**29** Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of barley that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.10.30 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**29.1** Prepared foods, of barley, obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from mixtures of unroasted cereal flakes and roasted cereal flakes or swelled cereals, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.20.30 or 1904.20.63 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**30** Barley cereals, in grain form or in the form of flakes or other worked grains (except flour and meal), pre-cooked or otherwise prepared, not elsewhere specified or included, that are classified under tariff item No. 1904.90.30 or 1904.90.64 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**31** Barley bran, sharps and other residues, whether or not in the form of pellets, derived from the sifting, milling or other working of barley, that are classified under tariff item No. 2302.40.11 of Schedule I to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


> SOR/96-57, ss. 1, 2; SOR/97-47, ss. 3, 4; SOR/98-65, ss. 2 to 5; SOR/2002-92, ss. 1 to 4; SOR/2011-310, ss. 1, 2.


