> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/95/43.md)

# General Import Permit No. 13 — Beef and Veal for Personal Use

**SOR/95-43**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 30 December 1994

----------

Whereas beef and veal have been included on the [Import Control List](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20604.md);

And Whereas the Secretary of State for External Affairs has determined an import access quantity for beef and veal pursuant to subsection 6.2(1)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md);

Therefore, the Secretary of State for External Affairs, pursuant to subsection 8.3(3)<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed General permit authorizing the importation of beef and veal for personal use, effective on the latest of the days on which sections 74, 106 and 109 of An Act to implement the Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, being chapter 47 of the Statutes of Canada, 1994, come into force.

Ottawa, Ontario, December 29, 1994

ANDRÉ OUELLET

*Secretary of State for External Affairs*



<a name='footnote1_e'><sup> *</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 106<br />

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 109<br />

**1** [Repealed, SOR/97-45, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** In this Permit, ***beef and veal*** means the goods set out in the schedule. (*boeuf et veau*)




## General


**3** Any resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import into Canada for the personal use of the importer and the importer's household, beef and veal that do not exceed 10 kg in net weight for each importation.



**4** Where any goods imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), that form shall contain the statement "Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 13 — Beef and Veal for Personal Use" or "*Importé en vertu de la Licence générale d'importation no 13 — Boeuf et veau pour usage personnel*".




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
**1** Cuts of meat of bovine animals, fresh, chilled or frozen, with bone in, that do not originate in Chile or a NAFTA country and are classified under tariff item No. 0201.20.10 or 0202.20.10 or under heading No. 98.04 or 98.26 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**2** Boneless meat of bovine animals, fresh, chilled or frozen, that does not originate in Chile or a NAFTA country and is classified under tariff item No. 0201.30.10 or 0202.30.10 or under heading No. 98.04 or 98.26 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).
> SOR/96-55, s. 1; SOR/97-45, s. 3; SOR/97-342, s. 1; SOR/98-66, s. 1.




