> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/95/586.md)

# Regulations Prescribing Tariffs of Pilotage Charges to be Paid to the Atlantic Pilotage Authority for Pilotage in Compulsory and non-Compulsory Pilotage Areas

**SOR/95-586**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PILOTAGE ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md)

Date registered: 13 December 1995

----------

Whereas the Atlantic Pilotage Authority, pursuant to section 34<sup><a href='#a1_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Pilotage Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md), published in the Canada Gazette Part I on June 17, 1995 a copy of proposed Regulations prescribing tariffs of pilotage charges to be paid to the Atlantic Pilotage Authority for pilotage in compulsory and non-compulsory pilotage areas;

<a name='a1_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: R.S., c. 28 (3rd Supp.), ss. 307 and 359 (Sch., item 9)<br />

Whereas notices of objection to this proposed tariff was filed with the National Transportation Agency and that Agency has investigated the proposed charges and, in its Decision No. 742-W-1995 dated November 9, 1995, recommends that they be implemented;

And Whereas the Atlantic Pilotage Authority, by resolution of November 21, 1995 made the Regulations to implement the proposed charges;

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to section 33 of the [Pilotage Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-14.md), is pleased hereby to approve the repeal of the Atlantic Pilotage Tariff Regulations, approved by Order in Council P.C. 1981-108 of January 15, 1981<sup><a href='#a2_e'>[**]</a></sup>, and to approve the annexed Regulations prescribing tariffs of pilotage charges to be paid to the Atlantic Pilotage Authority for pilotage in compulsory and non-compulsory pilotage areas made by the Atlantic Pilotage Authority on November 21, 1995, in substitution therefor.

<a name='a2_e'><sup>**</sup></a>: SOR/81-72, 1981 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 145<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Atlantic Pilotage Tariff Regulations, 1996.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Authority*** means the Atlantic Pilotage Authority; (*Administration*)

***berth*** includes a wharf, pier, anchorage and mooring buoy; (*poste*)

***breadth***, in respect of a ship, means the maximum distance, in metric units, between the outside edges of the shell platings of the ship; (*largeur*)

***coastal area*** means that part of the waters of the Atlantic Pilotage Authority area that is outside the compulsory pilotage areas and located
- **(a)** in and around Nova Scotia south and southwest of Halifax,
- **(b)** in the Bay of Fundy and the waters contiguous to the Bay of Fundy, or
- **(c)** to the south and southwest of the outer approaches to Chedabucto Bay; (*zone côtière*)

***compulsory pilotage area*** means an area established as a compulsory pilotage area by section 3 of the [Atlantic Pilotage Authority Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1201-1300/C.R.C.,%20c.%201264.md); (*zone de pilotage obligatoire*)

***dead ship*** means a self-propelled ship that is without the use of its propelling power or its rudder, but does not include a ship warped from one berth to another solely by means of mooring lines attached to a wharf, to the shore or to a mooring buoy; (*navire mort*)

***length***, in respect of a ship, means the distance, in metric units, between the fore and aft extremities of the ship; (*longueur*)

***moulded depth***, in respect of a ship, means the vertical distance, in metric units, at amidships from the top of the keel plate to the uppermost continuous deck, fore and aft, that extends to the sides of the ship and, for the purposes of this definition, the existence of tonnage openings, engine spaces or a step in the deck is not regarded as an interruption of the continuity of the deck; (*creux sur quille*)

***movage*** means the manoeuvring of a ship from one berth to another or back to the same berth within a compulsory pilotage area or a non-compulsory pilotage area, but does not include the warping of a ship from one berth to another solely by means of mooring lines attached to a wharf, to the shore or to a mooring buoy unless a pilot is employed; (*déplacement*)

***non-compulsory pilotage area*** means a port or harbour area described in Schedule 1 or a coastal area; (*zone de pilotage non obligatoire*)

***one-way trip*** means the passage of a ship from
- **(a)** outside a compulsory pilotage area or non-compulsory pilotage area to any place inside that area (inward), or
- **(b)** inside a compulsory pilotage area or non-compulsory pilotage area to any place outside that area (outward); (*voyage simple*)

***pilot boat*** means a boat used by the Authority to embark or disembark pilots; (*bateau-pilote*)

***pilotage unit***, in respect of a ship, means the figure obtained by multiplying its length by its breadth and moulded depth and dividing the product by 283.17; (*unité de pilotage*)

***trip through*** means the continuous passage of a ship from outside a compulsory pilotage area into that area and out of that area again. (*voyage via une zone de pilotage obligatoire*) 
> SOR/98-327, s. 16.





## Application


**3** These Regulations apply in respect of pilotage services in compulsory pilotage areas and non-compulsory pilotage areas.




## Pilotage Charges


**4** The charges prescribed in these Regulations are the pilotage charges to be paid to the Authority.




## Compulsory Pilotage Areas — One-Way Trips


**5** The charge for a ship, other than a dead ship or an oil rig, for a one-way trip in a compulsory pilotage area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 2 is the greater of
- **(a)** the minimum charge set out in column 2 of that item, and
- **(b)** the amount determined by the following formula:
```
(PU × UC) + BC
```
where
- **PU** = the pilotage unit,
- **UC** = the unit charge set out in column 3 of that item, and
- **BC** = the basic charge set out in column 4 of that item.


> SOR/98-327, ss. 15, 16.





## Compulsory Pilotage Areas — Trips Through


**6** The charge for a ship, other than a dead ship or an oil rig, for a trip through a compulsory pilotage area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 3 is
- **(a)** the flat charge set out in column 2 of the item if a pilot boat is not used, or in column 3 of that item if a pilot boat is used; or
- **(b)** the amount determined by the following formula:
```
(PU × UC) + BC
```
where
- **PU** = the pilotage unit,
- **UC** = the unit charge set out in column 4 of that item, and
- **BC** = the basic charge set out in column 5 of that item.


> SOR/97-453, s. 1; SOR/98-327, ss. 15, 16.





## Compulsory Pilotage Areas — Movages


**7** The charge for a ship, other than a dead ship or an oil rig, for a movage in a compulsory pilotage area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 4 is
- **(a)** the flat charge set out in column 2 of that item; or
- **(b)** the greater of
	- **(i)** the minimum charge set out in column 3 of that item, and
	- **(ii)** the amount determined by the following formula:
```
(PU × UC) + BC
```
where
- **PU** = the pilotage unit,
- **UC** = the unit charge set out in column 4 of that item if a pilot boat is not used or in column 6 if a pilot boat is used, and
- **BC** = the basic charge set out in column 5 of that item if a pilot boat is not used or in column 7 if a pilot boat is used.


> SOR/98-327, ss. 15, 16.





## Compulsory Pilotage Area of Saint John


**8** The charge for a ship, other than a dead ship or an oil rig, for a trip or a movage that is in the compulsory pilotage area of Saint John and is set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 5 is
- **(a)** the flat charge set out in column 2 of that item plus the supplementary charge set out in column 3 of that item; or
- **(b)** the greater of
	- **(i)** the minimum charge amount set out in column 4 of that item plus the supplementary charge set out in column 3 of that item, and
	- **(ii)** the amount determined by the following formula:
```
(PU × UC) + BC + SC
```
where
- **PU** = the pilotage unit,
- **UC** = the unit charge set out in column 5 of that item, and
- **BC** = the basic charge set out in column 6 of that item, and
- **SC** = the supplementary charge set out in column 3 of that item.


> SOR/98-327, ss. 15, 16.





## Port or Harbour Areas — One-Way Trips


**9** The charge for a ship, other than a dead ship or an oil rig, for a one-way trip in a port or harbour area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 6 is the greater of
- **(a)** the minimum charge set out in column 2 of that item, and
- **(b)** the amount determined by the following formula:
```
PU × UC
```
where
- **PU** = the pilotage unit,
- **UC** = the unit charge set out in column 3 of that item.


> SOR/98-327, ss. 15, 16.





## Port or Harbour Areas — Movages


**10** The charge for a ship, other than a dead ship or an oil rig, for a movage in a port or harbour area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 6 is the amount set out in column 4 of that item.
> SOR/98-327, ss. 15, 16.





## Coastal Areas — One-Way Trips and Movages


**11** 

- **(1)** A charge of $453 for each 24-hour period, or part of a 24-hour period, is payable if the services of a pilot are used to pilot a ship, other than a dead ship or an oil rig, in a coastal area.

- **(2)** The 24-hour period referred to in subsection (1)
	- **(a)** begins
		- **(i)** where the services are immediately preceded by pilotage services in a compulsory pilotage area or a port or harbour area described in Schedule 1, when the ship leaves that area, and
		- **(ii)** in any other case, when the pilot leaves the place of dispatch;
	- **(b)** ends
		- **(i)** where the services are immediately followed by pilotage services in a compulsory pilotage area or a port or harbour area described in Schedule 1, when the ship enters that area, and
		- **(ii)** in any other case, when the pilot returns to the place of dispatch; and
	- **(c)** for the purposes of subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (b)(ii), includes time spent on travel or delay on shore that is directly related to the pilotage assignment.

- **(3)** Where the provision of the services referred to in subsection (1) results in the pilot being unavailable for the pilot’s normal duties and it is necessary to replace the pilot with another pilot for the period of absence, an additional charge equal to the sum of the following is payable:
	- **(a)** the amount paid by the Authority for the services of the replacement pilot, and
	- **(b)** $221 for each 24-hour period, or part of a 24-hour period, that the replacement pilot is necessary.
> SOR/98-327, ss. 1, 16.





## Dead Ships


**12** The charge for a trip or movage of a dead ship is an amount equal to twice the charge that would be payable if the ship were not a dead ship.




## Oil Rigs


**13** The charge for an oil rig for a one-way trip or a movage is the greater of
- **(a)** a minimum charge of $1,174, and
- **(b)** the amount determined by multiplying the pilotage unit of the oil rig by a unit charge of $1.68.




## Pilot Boats


**14** 

- **(1)** The charge for the use of a pilot boat to embark or disembark a pilot for pilotage service on an oil rig in a compulsory pilotage area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 2 is the basic charge set out in column 4 of that item.

- **(2)** The charge for the use of a pilot boat if a request for the service of a pilot boat is cancelled after the pilot has embarked on the pilot boat in a compulsory pilotage area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 2 is the basic charge set out in column 4 of that item.

- **(3)** The charge for the use of a pilot boat to embark or disembark a pilot for pilotage service on a safety watch in a compulsory pilotage area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 2 is the basic charge set out in column 4 of that item.

- **(4)** The charge for the use of a pilot boat to embark or disembark a pilot for pilotage service in a non-compulsory pilotage area is
	- **(a)** the basic charge set out in column 4 of that item, if the pilot boat is dispatched from a compulsory pilotage area set out in column 1 of an item of Schedule 2; and
	- **(b)** the actual cost of hiring the pilot boat, if the pilot boat is dispatched from a non-compulsory pilotage area.
> SOR/98-327, s. 2.





## Locks


**15** A charge of $158 is payable in respect of the passage of a ship through Canso Lock or St. Peter’s Lock.
> SOR/98-327, s. 2.





## Trial Trips


**16** The charge for a trial trip is
- **(a)** for the first three hours or less, $330; and
- **(b)** for each hour or part of an hour after the first three hours, $120.
> SOR/98-327, s. 2; SOR/2003-82, s. 1.





## Compass Adjustments


**17** The charge for ship movements required for adjusting a ship’s compasses or calibrating a ship’s direction finders is
- **(a)** for the first three hours or less, $330; and
- **(b)** for each hour or part of an hour after the first three hours, $120.
> SOR/98-327, s. 2; SOR/2003-82, s. 2.





## Dry Dock


**18** The charge payable where a pilot conducts a ship into or out of a dry dock, floating dock, graving dock, or onto or off of a syncrolift or a cradle is $166.




## Detention on Board Ship


**19** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), if a pilot is detained on board ship for any reason other than adverse weather conditions, the charge is
	- **(a)** for the first hour or less of detention, no charge;
	- **(b)** for the second hour of detention or part of it, $210; and
	- **(c)** for each hour of detention, or part of the hour, after the second hour, $120.

- **(2)** The maximum charge payable under subsection (1) for any 24-hour period is $930.
> SOR/98-327, s. 3; SOR/2003-82, s. 3.





## Detention on Shore


**20** 

- **(1)** If pilotage services are requested and the pilot reports for duty at the pilot station and is detained there, the charge for the period of detention is $120 for each hour or less of detention, up to a maximum of $930 for any 24-hour period.

- **(2)** The period for which the charges set out in subsection (1) are payable begins one hour after the later of
	- **(a)** the time at which the pilot was ordered to report at the pilot station for pilotage duty, and
	- **(b)** the time at which the pilot actually reported at the pilot station for pilotage duty.
> SOR/98-327, s. 4; SOR/2003-82, s. 4.





## Detention on Oil Rigs


**21** Where, owing to adverse weather conditions, a pilot is unable to disembark from an oil rig after the pilot has piloted the oil rig or been on duty on board the oil rig to perform a safety watch, the charge is an amount equal to the pilotage charge payable under section 13.
> SOR/2001-298, s. 1(F).





## Travel and other Expenses of Pilots


**22** Travel, meal and lodging expenses incurred by a pilot that are directly related to a pilotage assignment are payable as pilotage charges.




## In-Transit and Overcarriage Charges


**23** 

- **(1)** Where a pilot is carried on board ship toward the area for which pilotage service is requested, a charge of $240 is payable for each 24-hour period, or part of a 24-hour period, during which the pilot is on board the ship and not performing pilotage duties.

- **(2)** Where a pilot is carried on board ship beyond the area for which pilotage service is requested, a charge of $240 is payable for each 24-hour period, or part of a 24-hour period, until the pilot is returned to the place where the pilot was taken on board the ship.




## Safety Watches


**24** 

- **(1)** If the owner, master or agent of a ship other than an oil rig, or the Authority, requires a pilot to be on duty on board the ship for reasons relating to safety, the charge payable is $510 for each 15-hour period, or part of a 15-hour period, that the pilot is required to be on duty.

- **(2)** Where the owner, master or agent of an oil rig, or the Authority, requires a pilot to be on duty on board the oil rig for reasons relating to safety, the charge is the greater of
	- **(a)** a minimum charge of $1,174, and
	- **(b)** the amount determined by multiplying the pilotage unit of the oil rig by a unit charge of $1.68.
> SOR/98-327, s. 5.





## Cancellations


**25** If pilot services are requested for a ship and the request is cancelled after a pilot reports for pilotage duty, the following charges are payable:
- **(a)** $300; and
- **(b)** if the request is cancelled more than one hour after the pilot reports for duty, a charge of $40 for each hour, or part of an hour, after the first hour.
> SOR/98-327, s. 6.





## Tugs and Barges


**26** For greater certainty, where pilotage services are provided for a tug and barge or barges, the pilotage unit to be used in the formulae set out in sections 5 to 9 is the sum of the pilotage units of each ship that is subject to compulsory pilotage or in respect of which pilotage services are requested.




## Charges per Pilot


**27** For greater certainty, where the services of more than one pilot are used, the charges for those services shall be determined by multiplying the number of pilots by the charges prescribed in these Regulations.




## Pilotage Cards


**28** 

- **(1)** On boarding a ship, a pilot shall ascertain from the master or officer-in-charge, the breadth, depth, length, registered tonnage and other information necessary to complete the pilotage card supplied by the Authority.

- **(2)** A completed pilotage card shall be signed by the master or officer-in-charge and the pilot and shall be delivered by the pilot without alteration to the Authority as soon after being signed as is practicable.



**29** [Repealed, SOR/98-327, s. 7]




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Section 2 and subparagraphs 11(2)(a)(i) and (b)(i))**
## Port and Harbour Areas
**1** The following areas are non-compulsory pilotage areas:
- **(a)** Bathurst, New Brunswick, consisting of all the navigable waters inward of a line drawn from Carron Point to Youghall Point and all the navigable waters seaward of that line within a radius of 5.0 nautical miles;
- **(b)** Caraquet, New Brunswick, consisting of all the navigable waters within a line drawn from Pointe de Maisonnette on a bearing of 000° (True) for a distance of 1.8 nautical miles, thence on a bearing of 070° (True) for a distance of 10.0 nautical miles and thence on a bearing of 180° (True) to Pokesudie Island Light;
- **(c)** Belledune, New Brunswick, consisting of all the navigable waters within a line drawn from Little Belledune Point on a bearing of 000° (True) for a distance of 3.0 nautical miles, thence to latitude 47°56’ N, longitude 65°47’ W, and thence on a bearing of 180° (True) to the shore;
- **(d)** Georgetown, Prince Edward Island, consisting of all the navigable waters within a line drawn from Boughton Island to a geographic point situated at a distance of 2.0 nautical miles on a bearing of 090° (True), thence on a bearing of 180° (True) for a distance of 5.2 nautical miles and thence on a bearing of 270° (True) to Graham Point;
- **(e)** Pictou, Nova Scotia, consisting of all the navigable waters within a line drawn from Logan Point to a geographic point situated at a distance of 2.7 nautical miles on a bearing of 070° (True) and thence on a bearing of 161° (True) to Evans Point;
- **(f)** Souris, Prince Edward Island, consisting of all the navigable waters within a line drawn from Deane Point to a geographic point situated at a distance of 2.0 nautical miles on a bearing of 180° (True), thence on a bearing of 270° (True) for a distance of 4.0 nautical miles and thence on a bearing of 000° (True) to Souris Head;
- **(g)** Summerside, Prince Edward Island, consisting of all the navigable waters within a line drawn from Seacow Head to a geographic point situated at a distance of 5.5 nautical miles on a bearing of 270° (True) and thence on a bearing of 000° (True) to Sunbury Point;
- **(h)** Chandler, Quebec, consisting of all the navigable waters within a line drawn from Chandler Government Wharf Light on a bearing of 090° (True) for a distance of 1.0 nautical mile, thence on a bearing of 108° (True) for a distance of 1.5 nautical miles, thence on a bearing of 270° (True) for a distance of 1.5 nautical miles and thence on a bearing of 000° (True) for a distance of 1.8 nautical miles to the shore; and
- **(i)** any other port or harbour area, other than a compulsory pilotage area or a port or harbour area in or around the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador.


> SOR/98-327, s. 8; SOR/2004-318, s. 1(F).




### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Sections 5 and 14)**
## Compulsory Pilotage Areas — One-Way Trips

<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Compulsory Pilotage Area</th>
<th>Minimum Charge ($)</th>
<th>Unit Charge ($)</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Miramichi, N.B.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>6.06</td>
<td>543.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Restigouche (Zone A, Dalhousie and Zone B, Campbellton), N.B. Campbellton), N.B.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>6.05</td>
<td>730.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Bay of Exploits (Botwood and Lewisporte), Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>6.81</td>
<td>518.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Holyrood, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>813.00</td>
<td>4.38</td>
<td>446.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Humber Arm, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>6.37</td>
<td>470.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Placentia Bay, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>4.45</td>
<td>619.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>[Repealed, SOR/2000-339, s. 1]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>St. John’s, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>813.00</td>
<td>4.38</td>
<td>446.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Stephenville, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>4.58</td>
<td>605.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone A, Sydney), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>3.21</td>
<td>538.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone B-1, Bras d’Or Lake), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>2.55</td>
<td>431.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone B-2, Bras d’Or Lake), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>2.55</td>
<td>431.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zones C and D, Strait of Canso), N.S.</td>
<td>743.00</td>
<td>2.46</td>
<td>600.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Halifax, N.S.</td>
<td>671.00</td>
<td>1.90</td>
<td>446.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Pugwash, N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>5.17</td>
<td>438.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Charlottetown, P.E.I.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>3.49</td>
<td>355.00</td>
</tr>
</table>


>  SOR/98-114, s. 1; SOR/98-327, s. 9; SOR/99-154, ss. 1, 2; SOR/2000-339, s. 1; SOR/2001-298, ss. 2 to 4, 9 to 11; SOR/2003-82, ss. 5 to 8, 14 to 16, 18; SOR/2003-411, s. 1; SOR/2004-318, ss. 2 to 5, 10; SOR/2005-381, ss. 1 to 6; SOR/2006-326, ss. 1 to 6.




### **SCHEDULE 3** 
**(Section 6)**
## Compulsory Pilotage Areas — Trips Through

<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
<th>Column 5</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Compulsory Pilotage Area</th>
<th>Flat Charge, No Pilot Boat Used ($)</th>
<th>Flat Charge, Pilot Boat Used ($)</th>
<th>Unit Charge ($)</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone B-1, Bras d’Or Lake), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>5.10</td>
<td>861.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone C, Strait of Canso), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>1,171.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Confederation Bridge, P.E.I.</td>
<td>450.00</td>
<td>1,050.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
</table>


> SOR/97-453, s. 2; SOR/98-327, ss. 10, 11; SOR/98-460, s. 1; SOR/99-154, s. 3; SOR/2001-298, s. 5; SOR/2003-411, s. 2; SOR/2005-381, s. 7; SOR/2006-326, s. 7.




### **SCHEDULE 4** 
**(Section 7)**
## Compulsory Pilotage Areas — Movages

<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
<th>Column 5</th>
<th>Column 6</th>
<th>Column 7</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Compulsory Pilotage Area</th>
<th>Flat Charge ($)</th>
<th>Minimum Charge ($)</th>
<th>Unit Charge, No Pilot Boat Used ($)</th>
<th>Basic Charge, No Pilot Boat Used ($)</th>
<th>Unit Charge, Pilot Boat Used ($)</th>
<th>Basic Charge, Pilot Boat Used ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Miramichi, N.B.</td>
<td>598.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Restigouche (Zone A, Dalhousie and Zone B, Campbellton), N.B.</td>
<td>602.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Bay of Exploits (Botwood and Lewisporte), Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>642.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Holyrood, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>731.00</td>
<td>3.50</td>
<td>356.00</td>
<td>3.94</td>
<td>401.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Humber Arm, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>642.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Placentia Bay, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>(a) between Whiffen Head and Come-by-Chance terminals </td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>619.00</td>
<td>2.23</td>
<td>309.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>(b) any other area</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>619.00</td>
<td>3.57</td>
<td>495.00</td>
<td>4.00</td>
<td>557.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>[Repealed, SOR/2000-339, s. 2]</td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>St. John’s, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>731.00</td>
<td>3.50</td>
<td>356.00</td>
<td>3.94</td>
<td>401.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Stephenville, Nfld. & Lab.</td>
<td>642.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone A, Sydney), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>538.00</td>
<td>2.57</td>
<td>430.00</td>
<td>2.88</td>
<td>484.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone B-1, Bras d’Or Lake), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>464.00</td>
<td>1.91</td>
<td>323.00</td>
<td>2.17</td>
<td>366.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zone B-2, Bras d’Or Lake), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>464.00</td>
<td>1.91</td>
<td>323.00</td>
<td>2.17</td>
<td>366.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Cape Breton (Zones C and D, Strait of Canso), N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>669.00</td>
<td>0.74</td>
<td>180.00</td>
<td>0.99</td>
<td>240.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Halifax, N.S.</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>604.00</td>
<td>1.52</td>
<td>357.00</td>
<td>1.71</td>
<td>401.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Pugwash, N.S.</td>
<td>472.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Charlottetown, P.E.I.</td>
<td>384.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
</table>


>  SOR/98-114, s. 2; SOR/98-327, s. 12; SOR/99-154, ss. 4, 5; SOR/99-411, s. 1; SOR/2000-339, s. 2; SOR/2001-298, ss. 6 to 8, 12 to 14; SOR/2003-82, ss. 9 to 12, 20 to 23; SOR/2003-411, s. 3; SOR/2004-318, ss. 6 to 10; SOR/2005-381, ss. 8 to 14; SOR/2006-326, ss. 8 to 12.




### **SCHEDULE 5** 
**(Section 8)**
## Saint John Compulsory Pilotage Area — Trips and Movages

<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
<th>Column 5</th>
<th>Column 6</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Trip or Movage</th>
<th>Flat Charge ($)</th>
<th>Supplementary Charge ($)</th>
<th>Minimum Charge ($)</th>
<th>Unit Charge ($)</th>
<th>Basic Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>subject to item 2, a one-way trip, including a trip to or from the Monobuoy</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>0.00</td>
<td>694.00</td>
<td>2.71</td>
<td>391.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>one-way trip to or from an anchorage area</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>0.00</td>
<td>694.00</td>
<td>0.82</td>
<td>117.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>trip through</td>
<td>790.00</td>
<td>0.00</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>n/a</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>movage from an anchorage area to the Monobuoy</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>0.00</td>
<td>625.00</td>
<td>2.04</td>
<td>294.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>movage from an anchorage area to a wharf or from a wharf to an anchorage area</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>0.00</td>
<td>625.00</td>
<td>2.17</td>
<td>313.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>movage from a wharf to another wharf within Saint John Harbour</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>0.00</td>
<td>625.00</td>
<td>1.63</td>
<td>235.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>movage from one anchorage area to another anchorage area</td>
<td>n/a</td>
<td>0.00</td>
<td>625.00</td>
<td>1.08</td>
<td>157.00</td>
</tr>
</table>


>  SOR/98-327, s. 13; SOR/99-154, s. 6; SOR/2003-82, ss. 13, 24; SOR/2005-381, ss. 15 to 17; SOR/2006-326, ss. 13 to 15.




### **SCHEDULE 6** 
**(Sections 9 and 10)**
## Port and Harbour Areas — One-Way Trips and Movages

<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Port or Harbour Area</th>
<th>Minimum Charge, One-way Trip ($)</th>
<th>Unit Charge, One-way Trip ($)</th>
<th>Movage Charge ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Bathurst, N.B.</td>
<td>287.00</td>
<td>2.88</td>
<td>233.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Caraquet, N.B.</td>
<td>287.00</td>
<td>2.88</td>
<td>233.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Belledune, N.B.</td>
<td>469.00</td>
<td>4.02</td>
<td>291.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Georgetown, P.E.I.</td>
<td>287.00</td>
<td>2.88</td>
<td>233.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Pictou, N.S.</td>
<td>287.00</td>
<td>2.88</td>
<td>233.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Souris, P.E.I.</td>
<td>287.00</td>
<td>2.88</td>
<td>233.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Summerside, P.E.I.</td>
<td>287.00</td>
<td>2.88</td>
<td>233.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Chandler, Que.</td>
<td>467.00</td>
<td>4.02</td>
<td>233.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Any other port or harbour area</td>
<td>302.00</td>
<td>3.26</td>
<td>244.00</td>
</tr>
</table>


> SOR/98-327, s. 14; SOR/99-154, s. 6.


