> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/96/137.md)

# British Columbia Sport Fishing Regulations, 1996

**SOR/96-137**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FISHERIES ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-14.md)

Date registered: 5 March 1996

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, pursuant to sections 8, 43<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[*]</a></sup> and 79.7<sup><a href='#fn_2e'>[**]</a></sup> of the [Fisheries Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-14.md), is pleased hereby to repeal the British Columbia Sport Fishing Regulations, made by Order in Council P.C. 1982-1920 of June 23, 1982<sup><a href='#fn_3e'>[***]</a></sup>, and to make the annexed Regulations respecting sport fishing in the Canadian fisheries waters of the Pacific Ocean and of the Province of British Columbia in substitution therefor, effective April 1, 1996.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 1, s. 12<br />

<a name='fn_2e'><sup>**</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 1, s. 24<br />

<a name='fn_3e'><sup>***</sup></a>: SOR/82-645, 1982 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 2305<br />



**1** [Repealed, SOR/2017-58, s. 35]




## Interpretation


**2** 

- **(1)** The definitions in this subsection apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Fisheries Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-14.md). (*Loi*)

***angling*** means fishing with a hook and line, with or without a rod. It does not include fishing with a set line. (*pêche à la ligne*)

***Area*** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the [Pacific Fishery Management Area Regulations, 2007](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2007/77.md). (*secteur*)

***artificial fly*** means
- **(a)** in non-tidal waters, a single-pointed hook that is dressed only with fur, feathers, hair, textiles, tinsel, wire or any combination of those materials and to which no external weight or external attracting device is attached; and
- **(b)** in tidal waters, a hook, or two hooks tied in tandem, dressed only with fur, feathers, hair, textiles, tinsel, wire or any combination of those materials. (*mouche artificielle*)

***day*** means a calendar day. (*jour* ou *journée*)

***fin fish*** means all fish other than crustaceans, echinoderms, molluscs, shellfish and marine mammals. (*poisson à nageoires*)

***fly fishing*** means angling with a line to which only an artificial fly is attached. (*pêche à la mouche*)

***foul hook*** means to hook a fish in any part of its body other than the mouth. (*casaquer*)

***gill net*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Pacific Fishery Regulations, 1993](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/54.md). (*filet maillant*)

***hatchery trout*** means a trout of any kind that has a healed scar in place of the adipose fin. (*truite d’élevage*)

***hatchery chinook salmon*** means a chinook salmon that has a healed scar in place of the adipose, pelvic or pectoral fin, or in place of a maxillary. (*saumon quinnat d’élevage*)

***hatchery coho salmon*** means a coho salmon that has a healed scar in place of the adipose, pelvic or pectoral fin, or in place of a maxillary. (*saumon coho d’élevage*)

***kokanee*** means a land-locked sockeye salmon. (*kokani*)

***management unit*** or ***M.U.*** means an area designated as a management unit in section 2 of the Management Unit Regulation made pursuant to the Province’s Wildlife Act. (*zone d’aménagement* ou *Z.A.*)

***mesh size*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Pacific Fishery Regulations, 1993](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/54.md). (*maillage*)

***natural bait*** means any foodstuff or natural substance other than wood, cotton, wool, hair, fur or feathers. It does not include fin fish other than roe. (*appât naturel*)

***non-tidal waters*** eans the waters of the Province other than tidal waters. (*eaux sans marée*)

***overall length*** with respect to a fish, means the distance measured from the tip of the nose to the fork of the tail or, where there is no fork, to the tip of the tail. (*longueur totale*)

***Province*** means the Province of British Columbia. (*province*)

***Region*** means a region as described in section 3 of the Hunting Regulation made pursuant to the Province’s Wildlife Act. (*Région*)

***ring net*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Pacific Fishery Regulations, 1993](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/54.md). (*bolinche*)

***salmon*** means a chinook salmon, a chum salmon, a coho salmon, a pink salmon or a sockeye salmon other than a kokanee. (*saumon*)

***set line*** means a fishing line that is left unattended in the water. (*ligne fixe*)

***spear fishing*** means fishing with a spear or an arrow that is propelled by a spring, an elastic band, compressed air or a bow or by hand. (*pêche au harpon*)

***sport fishing*** means fishing for recreational purposes. (*pêche sportive*)

***steelhead***, in waters where anadromous rainbow trout are found, means a rainbow trout that is greater than 50 cm in overall length. (*truite arc-en-ciel anadrome*)

***stream*** means a watercourse formed by the perennial or intermittent flow of water between continuous, definable banks and includes a river. (*ruisseau*)

***Subarea*** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the [Pacific Fishery Management Area Regulations, 2007](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2007/77.md). (*sous-secteur*)

***surfline*** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the [Pacific Fishery Management Area Regulations, 2007](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2007/77.md). (*ligne de démarcation*)

***tidal portion of the Fraser River*** means the following Subareas or portions of Subareas:
- **(a)** Subarea 29-11 and Subareas 29-13 to 29-17;
- **(b)** the portion of Subarea 29-9 bounded on the west by a line from a fishing boundary sign near the entrance to Canoe Passage, thence to a fishing boundary sign on Westham Island, thence following the westerly shoreline of Westham Island and Reifel Island to Pelly Point on Reifel Island, thence to Garry Point on Lulu Island; and
- **(c)** the portion of Subarea 29-12 bounded on the west by a line from the most southwesterly point of Sea Island, thence following the westerly shoreline of that island to the Iona Island Road Causeway, thence following that causeway and continuing in a straight line in a northerly direction to a fishing boundary sign on the north shore of Iona Island, thence in a straight line in a northerly direction to a fishing boundary sign on the mainland. (*partie à marée du fleuve Fraser*)

***tidal waters*** means the waters of the Areas set out in Schedule 2 to the [Pacific Fishery Management Area Regulations, 2007](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2007/77.md). (*eaux à marée*)

***trout*** means brook trout, brown trout, cutthroat trout, Dolly Varden, lake trout, rainbow trout or steelhead. (*truite*)

***wild chinook salmon*** means a chinook salmon that is not a hatchery chinook salmon. (*saumon quinnat sauvage*)

***wild coho salmon*** means a coho salmon that is not a hatchery coho salmon. (*saumon coho sauvage*)

***wild trout*** means a trout that is not a hatchery trout. (*truite sauvage*)

***year*** means a period beginning on April 1 and ending on March 31. (*année*)

- **(2)** A reference in these Regulations to a species of fish by its common name as set out in column I of an item of Schedule I shall be construed as a reference to the species of fish whose scientific name is set out in column II of that item.

- **(3)** A reference in these Regulations to a measurement of mesh size, depth, length or any other dimension of a net shall be construed as a reference to a measurement taken when the net is wet.
> SOR/98-545, s. 1(E); SOR/2001-156, s. 1(F); SOR/2002-380, s. 1(F); SOR/2017-58, s. 36.





## Application


**3** 

- **(1)** These Regulations apply in respect of sport fishing in the Canadian fisheries waters of the Pacific Ocean and of the Province.

- **(2)** These Regulations do not apply in respect of fishing in waters to which the [National Parks of Canada Fishing Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1101-1200/C.R.C.,%20c.%201120.md) apply.

- **(3)** These Regulations do not apply in respect of fishing in the Chilkoot Trail National Historic Site.

- **(4)** These Regulations do not apply to fishing and related activities carried out under the authority of a licence issued under the [Aboriginal Communal Fishing Licences Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/332.md).
> SOR/2002-225, s. 15; SOR/2002-380, s. 2.





## General


**4** Subject to these Regulations, no person shall molest or injure fish.




## Protected Species


**5** No person shall fish for, or catch and retain, any species of fish set out in the table to this section.
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Species of Fish</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Charlotte unarmored stickleback</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Enos stickleback</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Giant stickleback</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Green sturgeon</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Lake lamprey</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Nooksack dace</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Salish sucker</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Shorthead sculpin</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Speckled dace</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Umatilla dace</td>
</tr>
</table>





## Gear Restrictions


**6** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), no person shall angle with more than one fishing line
	- **(a)** in any lake or stream; or
	- **(b)** for white sturgeon.

- **(2)** A person who is alone in a boat may angle with two fishing lines in a lake.
> SOR/98-545, s. 2; SOR/2001-156, s. 2(F).




**7** No person shall angle with a fishing line to which is attached a weight that is greater than one kilogram.



**8** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) to (4), no person shall angle with a fishing line to which more than one hook, artificial lure or artificial fly is attached.

- **(2)** A person may angle in the tidal portion of the Fraser River with two hooks, artificial lures or artificial flies, attached to a fishing line.

- **(3)** Subject to subsection (4), a person may angle in tidal waters with any number of hooks attached to a fishing line if the hooks are used in combination to hold a single piece of bait.

- **(4)** A person who is angling in tidal waters for herring, northern anchovy, Pacific sand lance or squid may use any number of hooks on a fishing line.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 3(F).




**9** No person shall fish with a dip net unless
- **(a)** it is hung on a frame that measures no more than 90 cm in its greatest dimension;
- **(b)** the frame is attached to a handle; and
- **(c)** the bottom of the dip net is closed to form a bag that is no longer than 1.5 times the greatest dimension of the frame.




## Prohibited Methods


**10** 

- **(1)** No person shall
	- **(a)** use a light in any manner to attract fish, unless the light is submerged and attached to a fishing line within 1 m of the fish hook;
	- **(b)** catch or attempt to catch fish with snares; or
	- **(c)** wilfully foul hook or attempt to foul hook any fish other than herring, northern anchovy, Pacific sand lance and squid.

- **(2)** No person who accidentally foul hooks a fish in a lake or stream shall retain the fish.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 4(F).





## Angling from a Vessel


**11** No person shall angle from a vessel that is equipped with a motor in the waters set out in column I of an item of Schedule II situated in the M.U. set out in column II of that item during the period set out in column III of that item.



**12** No person shall angle from a vessel in the waters set out in column I of an item of Schedule III situated in the M.U. set out in column II of that item during the period set out in column III of that item.




## Possession


**13** 

- **(1)** No person shall possess more fish of a species, other than halibut, except at the person’s ordinary residence, than twice the daily quota for fish of that species prescribed by these Regulations.

- **(2)** No person shall possess more than 3 halibut, except at the person’s ordinary residence.



**14** No person on board a vessel shall possess any halibut taken by sport fishing if there are any other fish on board the vessel that are destined for sale, trade or barter.




**PART I** 
## Fishing in Tidal Waters



### Application


**15** This Part applies to fishing in tidal waters.



**16** The definitions in this section apply in this Part.

***conservation stamp*** means a stamp issued under section 17 that bears the words “salmon conservation/*conservation du saumon*” and the year for which the conservation stamp is valid. (*timbre de conservation*)

***licence*** means a tidal waters sport fishing licence issued under section 17. (*permis*)




### Licences and Conservation Stamps


**17** The Minister may issue a licence or a conservation stamp to a person on request and on payment of the applicable fee set out in the table to this section.
#### TABLE
<table>
<h4>Licence and Conservation Stamp Fees</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Licence or conservation stamp</th>
<th>Fee ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Licence, resident under 16 years of age, annual</td>
<td>No Charge</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Licence, resident 16 to 64 years of age, annual</td>
<td>21.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Licence, resident 65 years of age or older, annual</td>
<td>11.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Licence, resident, five-day</td>
<td>16.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Licence, resident, three-day</td>
<td>11.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Licence, resident, one-day</td>
<td>5.25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Licence, non-resident under 16 years of age, annual</td>
<td>No Charge</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Licence, non-resident 16 years of age or older, annual</td>
<td>101.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Licence, non-resident, five-day</td>
<td>31.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Licence, non-resident, three-day</td>
<td>19.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Licence, non-resident, one-day</td>
<td>7.00</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Conservation stamp</td>
<td>6.00</td>
</tr>
</table>
**NOTE:** For the purposes of this table, ***resident*** means a person who normally resides in Canada.


> SOR/96-138, s. 1; SOR/98-545, s. 3.




**18** 

- **(1)** No person shall
	- **(a)** fish unless the person holds a licence; or
	- **(b)** catch and retain salmon unless the person holds a licence to which is permanently affixed a conservation stamp that is valid for the same year as the licence.

- **(2)** Paragraph (1)(a) does not apply on the third Sunday in June or the Friday or Saturday immediately preceding that day.
> SOR/2010-113, s. 1.




**19** [Repealed, SOR/2002-380, s. 3]



**20** No person shall harvest herring spawn on kelp other than under the authority of a licence issued under the [Fishery (General) Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/53.md), the [Pacific Fishery Regulations, 1993](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/54.md) or the [Aboriginal Communal Fishing Licences Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/332.md).



**21** No person shall hold more than one licence.




### Catch Records


**22** A licence holder who catches and retains a lingcod or a chinook salmon shall immediately record the catch on the licence or, if a record can be made in a catch registry kept by the Department of Fisheries and Oceans, in that registry.
> SOR/98-545, s. 4; SOR/2019-76, s. 1.




**22.1** The licence holder shall not alter the record made under section 22.
> SOR/2019-76, s. 1.





**PART II** 
## Fishing for Fin Fish Other than Salmon in Tidal Waters



### Application


**23** This Part applies to fishing for fin fish other than salmon in tidal waters.




### Close Times


**24** 

- **(1)** No person shall fish for fish of a species set out in column I of an item of Schedule IV, in any Subarea, with a type of gear or by a method set out in column III of that item during the close time set out in column IV of that item.

- **(2)** The close time set out in column IV of item 21 of Schedule IV is considered to be fixed separately and individually for each species of fish set out in column I.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 5.





### Daily Quotas for Individual Species


**25** 

- **(1)** No person shall catch and retain in a day more fish of a species set out in column I of Schedule IV, in any Subarea, than the daily quota set out in column II.

- **(2)** The quota set out in column II of item 21 of Schedule IV is considered to be fixed separately and individually for each species of fish set out in column I.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 6.





### Aggregate Daily Quotas


**26** No person shall, in a day, catch and retain more than
- **(a)** four wild trout and hatchery trout, in the aggregate, in any Subarea;
- **(b)** four wild trout and hatchery trout, in the aggregate; or
- **(c)** eight rockfish.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 7.





### Annual Quotas


**27** No person shall catch and retain in a year more than 10 lingcod in the aggregate from Areas 11 to 19, 28 and 29 and Subareas 20-5 to 20-7.



**28** No person shall catch and retain more than one white sturgeon in a year.




### Size Limits


**29** No person shall catch and retain in any Subarea
- **(a)** a white sturgeon that measures less than 100 cm or more than 150 cm in overall length;
- **(b)** a wild trout that measures less than 30 cm in overall length;
- **(c)** a hatchery trout that measures less than 30 cm in overall length; or
- **(d)** a lingcod that measures less than 65 cm in overall length or that measures, with the head off, less than 53 cm in length when measured along the shortest length of the body to the tip of the tail.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 4.





### Gear Restrictions


**30** No person shall fish for fish of a species set out in column I of an item of Schedule IV other than with a type of gear or by a method set out in column III of that item.



**31** No person shall fish for eulachon or smelt with a gill net
- **(a)** that exceeds 7.5 m in length; or
- **(b)** that has a mesh size of less than 25 mm or more than 50 mm.



**32** No person shall fish for eulachon or smelt with more than one net at a time.




**PART III** 
## Fishing for Crustaceans, Echinoderms, Molluscs and Shellfish in Tidal Waters



### Application


**33** This Part applies to fishing for crustaceans, echinoderms, molluscs and shellfish in tidal waters.




### Close Times


**34** 

- **(1)** No person shall fish for fish of a species set out in column I of an item of Schedule V, in any Subarea, with a type of gear or by a method set out in column III of that item during the close time set out in column IV of that item.

- **(2)** The close time set out in column IV of subitem 3(6) of Schedule V is considered to be fixed separately and individually for each species of crab set out in column I.

- **(3)** The close time set out in column IV of item 19 of Schedule V is considered to be fixed separately and individually for each species of fish set out in column I.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 8.





### Daily Quotas for Individual Species


**35** 

- **(1)** No person shall catch and retain in a day more fish of a species set out in column I of Schedule V, in any Subarea, than the daily quota set out in column II.

- **(2)** The quota set out in column II of subitem 3(6) of Schedule V is considered to be fixed separately and individually for each species of crab referred to in column I.

- **(3)** The quota set out in column II of item 19 of Schedule V is considered to be fixed separately and individually for each species of fish referred to in column I.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 9.





### Aggregate Daily Quotas


**36** No person shall catch and retain in a day more than
- **(a)** 75 clams;
- **(b)** four Dungeness crab and red rock crab, in the aggregate, in all of Areas 11 to 20, 28 and 29;
- **(c)** six Dungeness crab, red rock crab and king crab, in the aggregate, in all of Areas 1 to 10 and 21 to 27 or in any Subarea outside the surfline;
- **(d)** 75 mussels; or
- **(e)** six purple-hinged rock scallops and weather-vane scallops in the aggregate.




### Size Limits


**37** 

- **(1)** No person shall catch and retain
	- **(a)** an abalone that measures less than 100 mm in a straight line through the greatest breadth of the shell;
	- **(b)** a Dungeness crab that measures less than 165 mm in a straight line through the greatest breadth of the carapace; or
	- **(c)** a red rock crab that measures less than 115 mm in a straight line through the greatest breadth of the carapace

- **(2)** No person shall remove an abalone from its resting place without first ensuring that it is of a size greater than that described in paragraph (1)(a).




### Gear Restrictions


**38** No person shall fish for fish of a species set out in column I of an item of Schedule V other than with a type of gear or by a method set out in column III of that item.



**39** 

- **(1)** No person shall fish for crab with more than two ring nets, dip nets and crab traps in the aggregate.

- **(2)** No person shall fish for crab with a ring net or crab trap unless a tag, float or buoy that bears the operator’s name is attached to the net or trap.

- **(3)** Despite subsection (2), if two crab traps are attached to one ground-line, it is sufficient to attach a tag, float or buoy that bears the operator’s name to one end of the ground-line.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 5.




**40** 

- **(1)** No person shall fish for shrimp with more than four shrimp traps.

- **(2)** No person shall fish for shrimp with a shrimp trap unless a tag, float or buoy that bears the operator’s name is attached to the trap.

- **(3)** Despite subsection (2), if two traps are attached to one ground-line, it is sufficient to attach a tag, float or buoy that bears the operator’s name to one end of the ground-line.

- **(4)** For greater certainty, if more than two traps are attached to one ground-line, paragraph 27(6)(b) of the [Fishery (General) Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/53.md) applies.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 5.




**40.1** 

- **(1)** No person shall fish for octopus with an octopus trap unless a tag, float or buoy that bears the operator’s name is attached to the trap.

- **(2)** Despite subsection (1), if two traps are attached to one ground-line, it is sufficient to attach a tag, float or buoy that bears the operator’s name to one end of the ground-line.

- **(3)** For greater certainty, if more than two traps are attached to one ground-line, paragraph 27(6)(b) of the [Fishery (General) Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/93/53.md) applies.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 5.




**41** No person shall fish with a crab trap unless the trap has a section in the top or in a sidewall that has been laced, sewn or otherwise secured by a single length of untreated cotton twine no greater than grade No. 120, which, on deterioration or parting, produces a rectangular opening with a minimum size of 7 cm × 20 cm or a square opening with a minimum size of 11 cm × 11 cm.



**41.1** No person shall set, operate or leave unattended in the water any ring net or any crab, shrimp or octopus trap unless the tag, float or buoy attached to the ring net or trap bears the operator’s name.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 6.





**PART IV** 
## Fishing for Salmon in Tidal and Non-Tidal Waters



### Application


**42** This Part applies to fishing for salmon in tidal and non-tidal waters.




### Close Times


**43** No person shall fish for salmon of a species set out in column I of an item of Schedule VI, in any Subarea, lake or stream, during the close time set out in column V of that item.




### Daily Quotas for Individual Species


**44** No person shall catch and retain in a day more salmon of a species set out in column I of an item of Schedule VI, of an overall length set out in column III of that item, in any Subarea, lake or stream, than the daily quota set out in column IV of that item.




### Aggregate Daily Quotas


**45** 

- **(1)** No person shall catch and retain in a day, in any Subarea, lake or stream, more than
	- **(a)** four hatchery chinook salmon and wild chinook salmon, in the aggregate, that measure 50 cm or less in overall length;
	- **(b)** two hatchery chinook salmon and wild chinook salmon, in the aggregate, that measure more than 50 cm in overall length;
	- **(c)** four hatchery chinook salmon and wild chinook salmon, in the aggregate;
	- **(d)** four hatchery coho salmon and wild coho salmon, in the aggregate, that measure 35 cm or less in overall length;
	- **(e)** two hatchery coho salmon and wild coho salmon, in the aggregate, that measure more than 35 cm in overall length; or
	- **(f)** four hatchery coho salmon and wild coho salmon, in the aggregate.

- **(2)** No person shall catch and retain in a day more than four salmon, in the aggregate, from all waters.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 10(E).





### Monthly Quota for Chinook Salmon


**46** No person shall catch and retain in a month in any lake or stream, more than 10 chinook salmon, in the aggregate, that measure more than 50 cm in overall length.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 7(E).





### Aggregate Annual Quotas


**47** No person shall catch and retain in a year more than:
- **(a)** 20 chinook salmon, in the aggregate, from the waters of Subareas 19-1 to 19-4 and 20-5 to 20-7;
- **(b)** 15 chinook salmon, in the aggregate, from the waters of Area 12 (not including Subarea 12-14), Areas 13 to 18, Area 19 (not including Subareas 19-1 to 19-4), Area 28 and Area 29 (not including the tidal portion of the Fraser River);
- **(c)** 10 chinook salmon that measure more than 50 cm in overall length from the tidal portion of the Fraser River;
- **(d)** 30 chinook salmon, in the aggregate, from all tidal waters, not including chinook salmon that measure 50 cm or less in overall length that are taken from the tidal portion of the Fraser River; or
- **(e)** 10 chinook salmon that measure more than 50 cm in overall length from all non-tidal waters.




### Size Limits


**48** No person shall catch and retain a salmon of a species set out in column I of Schedule VI, in any Subarea, lake or stream, the overall length of which is less than the minimum overall length set out in column II.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 11.





### Method, Gear and Bait Restrictions


**49** No person shall fish for salmon by a method or with a type of gear or bait set out in column I of an item of the table to this section in any Subarea, lake or stream during the close time set out in column II of that item.
#### TABLE
<table>
<h4>Close Times for Salmon Angling by Method, Gear and Bait</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Method, Gear or Bait</th>
<th>Close Time</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**METHOD**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Fly fishing</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Angling other than fly fishing</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**GEAR**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>A hook having more than one point</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Barbed hook</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>A hook having a single point greater than 15 mm from point to shank</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**BAIT**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Natural bait</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Dead fin fish other than roe</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Live fin fish other than roe</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>A hook or an artificial lure</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2002-380, s. 8(E).




**50** No person shall fish for salmon other than by angling.




**PART V** 
## Fishing for Fin Fish Other than Salmon in Non-Tidal Waters



### Application


**51** This Part applies to fishing for fin fish, other than salmon, in non-tidal waters.




### Gear


**52** Subject to section 53, no person shall fish other than by angling or with a set line.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 12.





### Spears


**53** A person may fish with a spear for burbot or fish of any species not listed in the table to section 58 in Regions 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8.




### Set Lines


**54** A person who is fishing with a set line shall not
- **(a)** use more than one set line;
- **(b)** use a hook that is less than 3 cm measured from the point to the shank; or
- **(c)** retain fish of any species listed in the table to section 58 other than burbot.




### Close Times


**55** 

- **(1)** No person shall fish for, or catch and retain, fish of any species, in a lake or stream, from 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31.

- **(2)** The close time established by subsection (1) is considered to be fixed separately and individually for each species of fish.




### Daily Quotas


**56** 

- **(1)** No person shall catch and retain in a day more fish of a species set out in column I of Schedule VII, of an overall length set out in column II, than
	- **(a)** the daily quota set out in column III or the daily catch limit under section 7 of the [Yukon Territory Fishery Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/801-900/C.R.C.,%20c.%20854.md), in respect of fish caught in Atlin Lake, Bennett Lake, Laidlaw Lake, Morley Lake, Tagish Lake, Teslin Lake, or in Rancheria River, Swift River or their tributaries; or
	- **(b)** the daily quota set out in column III, in any other case.

- **(2)** A person who, in a day, has caught and retained the daily quota for steelhead in a lake or stream shall cease fishing in that lake or stream for the rest of the day.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 13.





### Aggregate Daily Quotas


**57** No person shall catch and retain in a day from any lake or stream, more than
- **(a)** six wild rainbow trout and hatchery rainbow trout, in the aggregate;
- **(b)** one wild steelhead and hatchery steelhead, in the aggregate;
- **(c)** six wild cutthroat trout and hatchery cutthroat trout, in the aggregate;
- **(d)** six wild brown trout and hatchery brown trout, in the aggregate;
- **(e)** six wild brook trout and hatchery brook trout, in the aggregate;
- **(f)** six wild Dolly Varden and hatchery Dolly Varden, in the aggregate;
- **(g)** six wild lake trout and hatchery lake trout, in the aggregate;
- **(h)** four smallmouth and largemouth bass, in the aggregate; or
- **(i)** 25 wild kokanee and hatchery kokanee, in the aggregate.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 9(E).




**58** No person shall catch and retain in a day a quantity of fish of a species set out in column I of an item of the table to this section, from all non-tidal waters, that exceeds the aggregate daily quota set out in column II of that item.
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Species</th>
<th>Aggregate Daily Quota</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Rainbow trout</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Steelhead</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Cutthroat trout</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Brown trout</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Dolly Varden</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Lake trout</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Brook trout</td>
<td>6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Bass</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Whitefish</td>
<td>15</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Arctic grayling</td>
<td>3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Burbot</td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Kokanee</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Northern pike</td>
<td>5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Walleye</td>
<td>8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>White sturgeon</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Yellow perch</td>
<td>20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Inconnu</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Black crappie</td>
<td>20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Goldeye</td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>Crayfish</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
</table>





### Monthly Quota for Steelhead


**59** No person shall catch and retain in a month more than two steelhead in any lake or stream.
> SOR/2002-380, s. 10.





### Annual Quotas


**60** No person shall catch and retain in a year more than
- **(a)** 10 steelhead;
- **(b)** one white sturgeon;
- **(c)** five rainbow trout greater than 50 cm in overall length from the part of Kootenay Lake east of a line between signs posted at Balfour Point and Proctor Lighthouse;
- **(d)** five rainbow trout greater than 50 cm in overall length from Shuswap Lake, including Seymour Arm, Anstey Arm and Salmon Arm, Little Shuswap Lake, and the portion of South Thompson River (Little River) between those lakes and Mara Lake; or
- **(e)** five Dolly Varden and lake trout greater than 60 cm in overall length, in the aggregate, from Shuswap Lake, including Seymour Arm, Anstey Arm and Salmon Arm, Little Shuswap Lake, and the portion of South Thompson River (Little River) between those lakes and Mara Lake.
> SOR/2001-156, s. 14(F).





### Miscellaneous


**61** No person shall use as bait or possess for that purpose any freshwater invertebrate at a lake.



**62** Subject to these Regulations, no person shall deposit any substance into the water for the purpose of attracting fish.




### Method, Gear and Bait Restrictions


**63** No person shall fish for any species of fish by a method or with a type of gear or bait set out in column I of an item of the table to this section, in a lake or stream, during the close time set out in column II of that item.
#### TABLE
<table>
<h4>Close Times for Fishing by Method, Gear and Bait</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Method, Gear or Bait</th>
<th>Close Time</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**METHOD**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Fly fishing</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Angling other than fly fishing</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Spear fishing</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Set line</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**GEAR**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>A hook having more than one point</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Barbed hook</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>A hook having a single point greater than 15 mm from point to shank</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**BAIT**</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Natural bait</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Dead fin fish other than roe</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Live fin fish other than roe</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>A hook or an artificial lure</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
</table>





**PART VI** 
## Ticketable Offences



### Prescribed Offences


**64** The contravention of a provision of these Regulations set out in column I of an item of Schedule VIII is an offence to which section 79.7 of the Act applies and may be described in tickets in the manner set out in column II of that item.




### Fines


**65** Where proceedings are commenced under section 79.7 of the Act, the amount of the fine for an offence described in column II of an item of Schedule VIII is the amount set out in column III of that item.




### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(Subsection 2(2))**
<table>
<h4>Common and Scientific Names</h4>
<tr>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Common Name</th>
<th>Scientific Name</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Abalone</td>
<td>*Haliotis kamtschatkana*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Arctic grayling</td>
<td>*Thymallus arcticus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Bass</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Largemouth

</td>
<td>**(1)** *Micropterus salmoides*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Smallmouth

</td>
<td>**(2)** *Micropterus dolomieui*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Black crappie</td>
<td>*Pomoxis nigromaculatus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Brook trout</td>
<td>*Salvelinus fontinalis*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Brown trout</td>
<td>*Salmo trutta*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Burbot</td>
<td>*Lota lota*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Charlotte unarmored stickleback, Enos stickleback or giant stickleback</td>
<td>*Gasterosteus* sp.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chinook salmon</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus tshawytscha*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chum salmon</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus keta*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Clam</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Butter

</td>
<td>**(1)** *Saxidomus giganteus*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Cockle

</td>
<td>**(2)** *Clinocardium nuttali*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Geoduck

</td>
<td>**(3)** *Panopea generosa*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Horse

</td>
<td>**(4)** Any species of *Tresus*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(5)** Littleneck

</td>
<td>**(5)** *Protothaca staminea*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(6)** Manila

</td>
<td>**(6)** *Tapes philippinarum*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(7)** Razor

</td>
<td>**(7)** *Siliqua patula*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(8)** Softshell

</td>
<td>**(8)** *Mya arenaria*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Coho salmon</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus kisutch*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Codfish</td>
<td>Any species of *Gadidae*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Crab</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Box

</td>
<td>**(1)** *Lopholithodes* spp.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Dungeness

</td>
<td>**(2)** *Cancer magister*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** King

</td>
<td>**(3)** *Paralithodes camtschatica*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Red rock

</td>
<td>**(4)** *Cancer productus*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(5)** Shore

</td>
<td>**(5)** Any species of *Decapoda* except *Cancer magister* and *Cancer productus*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Crayfish</td>
<td>*Pacifastacus* spp.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Cutthroat trout</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus clarki*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Dolly Varden (including bull trout)</td>
<td>*Salvelinus malma* and *Salvelinus confluentus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Eulachon</td>
<td>*Thaleichthys pacificus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Ghost shrimp</td>
<td>*Callianassa californiensis*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Giant barnacle</td>
<td>*Balanus* sp.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Goldeye</td>
<td>*Hiodon alosoides*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Goose barnacle</td>
<td>*Pollicipes* spp.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Greenling</td>
<td>Any species of *Hexagrammidae* except *Ophiodon elongatus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Green sturgeon</td>
<td>*Acipenser medirostris*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Halibut</td>
<td>*Hippoglossus stenolepis*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Herring</td>
<td>*Clupea harengus pallasi*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Inconnu</td>
<td>*Stenodus leucichthys*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kokanee</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus nerka*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lake lamprey</td>
<td>*Lampetra macrostoma*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lake trout</td>
<td>*Salvelinus namaycush*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Limpet</td>
<td>Any species of *Archaeogastropoda* except *Haliotis kamtschatkana*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lingcod</td>
<td>*Ophiodon elongatus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Mussel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Blue

</td>
<td>**(1)** *Mytilus edulis*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** California

</td>
<td>**(2)** *Mytilus californianus*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nooksack dace</td>
<td>*Rhinichthys* sp.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Northern anchovy</td>
<td>*Engraulis mordax mordax*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Northern pike</td>
<td>*Esox lucius*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Octopus</td>
<td>*Octopus dofleini*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Oyster</td>
<td>*Crassostrea gigas*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pacific sand lance</td>
<td>*Ammodytes hexapterus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pink salmon</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus gorbuscha*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rainbow trout (including steelhead and Kamloops)</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus mykiss*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Rockfish</td>
<td>Any species of *Scorpaenidae*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sablefish</td>
<td>*Anoplopoma fimbria*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Salish sucker</td>
<td>*Catostomus* sp.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sand dollar</td>
<td>*Dendraster excentricus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Scallop</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Pink

</td>
<td>**(1)** *Chlamys rubida*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Purple-hinged rock

</td>
<td>**(2)** *Crassadoma gigantea*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Spiny

</td>
<td>**(3)** *Chlamys hastata*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Weather-vane

</td>
<td>**(4)** *Patinopecten caurinus*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sculpin</td>
<td>Any species of *Cottidae*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sea cucumber</td>
<td>*Parastichopus californicus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sea urchin</td>
<td>*Strongylocentrotus franciscanus* and *Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Shorthead sculpin</td>
<td>*Cottus confusus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Shrimp</td>
<td>Any species of *Pandalidae*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sixgill shark</td>
<td>*Hexanchus griseus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Skate</td>
<td>*Raja* spp.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Smelt</td>
<td>*Hypomemus pretiosus pretiosus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sockeye salmon</td>
<td>*Oncorhynchus nerka*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Sole or flounder</td>
<td>Any species of *Pleuronectidae* except *Hippoglossus stenolepis*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Speckled dace</td>
<td>*Rhinichthys osculus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Squid</td>
<td>*Teuthoidea*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Starfish</td>
<td>*Asteroidea*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Surfperch</td>
<td>Any species of *Embiotocidae*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Umatilla dace</td>
<td>*Rhinichthys umatilla*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Walleye</td>
<td>*Stizostedion vitreum*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Whelk</td>
<td>Any species of and *Negastropoda*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Whitefish</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Lake

</td>
<td>**(1)** *Coregonus clupeaformis*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Mountain

</td>
<td>**(2)** *Prosopium williamsoni*

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>White sturgeon</td>
<td>*Acipenser transmontanus*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Yellow perch</td>
<td>*Perca flavescens*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Yelloweye rockfish</td>
<td>*Sebastes ruberrimus*</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2017-58, s. 37.




### **SCHEDULE II** 
**(Section 11)**
<table>
<h4>Waters in Which the Use of a Vessel Equipped with a Motor Is Prohibited While Angling</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Waters</th>
<th>Management Units</th>
<th>Period</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Nicomekl River above dyke gate</td>
<td>2-4</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Serpentine River above dyke gate</td>
<td>2-4</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Clearwater River below Falls Creek</td>
<td>3-40, 3-46</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Atnarko River</td>
<td>5-6, 5-11</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Bella Coola River</td>
<td>5-8, 5-11</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Chilcotin River</td>
<td>5-12 to 5-14</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Chilko River above bridge at Henry’s Crossing</td>
<td>5-5</td>
<td>Sept. 11 to Sept. 30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Horsefly River, from Woodjam Bridge to Quesnel Lake</td>
<td>5-2, 5-15</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE III** 
**(Section 12)**
<table>
<h4>Waters in Which the Use of a Vessel Is Prohibited While Angling</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Waters</th>
<th>Management Units</th>
<th>Period</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Bainbridge Lake</td>
<td>1-7</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Thompson River below Kamloops Lake</td>
<td>3-13, 3-14, 3-18</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Babine River below fish counting fence</td>
<td>6-8</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Bulkley River from Morice River to C.N. bridge at Barrett</td>
<td>6-9</td>
<td>Aug. 15 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Bulkley River in Moricetown Canyon and within 100 m below Moricetown Canyon</td>
<td>6-9</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Kispiox River and tributaries</td>
<td>6-30</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Morice River and tributaries</td>
<td>6-9</td>
<td>Aug. 15 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Skeena River within a triangular area bounded by three fishing boundary signs posted at the mouth of Kispiox River</td>
<td>6-8</td>
<td>Jan. 1 to Dec. 31</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE IV** 
**(Sections 24, 25 and 30)**
<table>
<h4>Gear, Close Times and Quotas for Fin Fish Other than Salmon in Tidal Waters</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
<th>Column IV</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Species</th>
<th>Daily Quota</th>
<th>Type of Gear or Method</th>
<th>Close Time</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Codfish</td>
<td>8</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Eulachon</td>
<td>20 kg</td>
<td>**(1)** Gill net

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Greenling</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Halibut</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** Jan. 1 to Jan. 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(2)** Jan. 1 to Jan. 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Herring</td>
<td>20 kg</td>
<td>**(1)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Herring jig

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Herring rake

</td>
<td>**(3)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Cast net

</td>
<td>**(4)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Lingcod</td>
<td>3</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Northern anchovy</td>
<td>20 kg</td>
<td>**(1)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Herring jig

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Herring rake

</td>
<td>**(3)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Cast net

</td>
<td>**(4)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Pacific sand lance</td>
<td>5 kg</td>
<td>**(1)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Herring jig

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Herring rake

</td>
<td>**(3)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Cast net

</td>
<td>**(4)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Rockfish, except Yelloweye rockfish</td>
<td>8</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Sablefish</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>Angling</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Skate</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>Angling</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Sculpin</td>
<td>8</td>
<td>Angling</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Sixgill shark</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>Angling</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Smelt</td>
<td>20 kg</td>
<td>**(1)** Gill net

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Sole and Flounder</td>
<td>8</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Surfperch</td>
<td>8</td>
<td>Angling</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Trout (Hatchery)</td>
<td>**(1)** 50 cm or less: 2

</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** more than 50 cm: 2

</td>
<td>**(2)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Trout (Wild)</td>
<td>**(1)** 50 cm or less: 2

</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** more than 50 cm: 2

</td>
<td>**(2)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>White sturgeon</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>Angling</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>Yelloweye rockfish</td>
<td>2</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>21</td>
<td>Any species of fin fish, other than salmon and species referred to in items 1 to 20</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>**(1)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31 to 20

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(3)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Herring jig

</td>
<td>**(4)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(5)** Herring rake

</td>
<td>**(5)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE V** 
**(Sections 34, 35 and 38)**
<table>
<h4>Gear, Close Times and Quotas for Molluscs, Echinoderms, Crustaceans and Shellfish in Tidal Waters</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
<th>Column IV</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Species</th>
<th>Daily Quota</th>
<th>Type of Gear or Method</th>
<th>Close Time</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Abalone</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(a)** Jan. 1 to Dec. 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking while snorkelling

</td>
<td>**(b)** Jan. 1 to Dec. 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(c)** Jan. 1 to Dec. 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Clam</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Butter

</td>
<td>**(1)** 25

</td>
<td>**(1)** Hand picking or hand digging

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Geoduck

</td>
<td>**(2)** 3

</td>
<td>**(2)** Hand picking or hand digging

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Horse

</td>
<td>**(3)** 6

</td>
<td>**(3)** Hand picking or hand digging

</td>
<td>**(3)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Littleneck

</td>
<td>**(4)** 75

</td>
<td>**(4)** Hand digging

</td>
<td>**(4)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(5)** Manila

</td>
<td>**(5)** 75

</td>
<td>**(5)** Hand digging

</td>
<td>**(5)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(6)** Razor

</td>
<td>**(6)** 12

</td>
<td>**(6)** Hand digging

</td>
<td>**(6)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(7)** Softshell

</td>
<td>**(7)** 25

</td>
<td>**(7)** Hand digging

</td>
<td>**(7)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(8)** Cockles

</td>
<td>**(8)** 25

</td>
<td>**(8)** Hand picking or hand digging

</td>
<td>**(8)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Crab</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Dungeness

</td>
<td>**(1)** 4

</td>
<td>**(a)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Ring net

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(c)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(d)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(e)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(e)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Red rock

</td>
<td>**(2)** 4

</td>
<td>**(a)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Ring net

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(c)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(d)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(e)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(e)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** King

</td>
<td>**(3)** 2

</td>
<td>**(a)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Ring net

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(c)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(d)** Diving

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(4)** Shore

</td>
<td>**(4)** 75

</td>
<td>**(4)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(4)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(5)** Box

</td>
<td>**(5)** 1

</td>
<td>**(a)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Ring net

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(c)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(d)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(e)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(e)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(6)** Any species of crab not referred to in subitems (1) to (5)

</td>
<td>**(6)** 4

</td>
<td>**(a)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Ring net

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(c)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(d)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(e)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(e)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Ghost shrimp</td>
<td>50</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand digging

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand pump

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Giant barnacles</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>Diving</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Goose barnacle</td>
<td>2 kg</td>
<td>Hand picking</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Limpets</td>
<td>75</td>
<td>Hand picking</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Mussel</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Blue

</td>
<td>**(1)** 75

</td>
<td>**(1)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** California

</td>
<td>**(2)** 25

</td>
<td>**(2)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Octopus</td>
<td>1</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(c)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(d)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Oysters</td>
<td>15 oysters or 1/2 L. shucked</td>
<td>Hand picking</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Sand dollars</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>Hand picking</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Scallop</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(1)** Purple-hinged rock

</td>
<td>**(1)** 6

</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking, using a knife to remove the adductor muscle while diving

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** Pink and spiny

</td>
<td>**(2)** 75

</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(3)** Weather-vane

</td>
<td>**(3)** 6

</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Sea cucumber</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Sea urchin</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Shrimp</td>
<td>200</td>
<td>**(a)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Ring net

</td>
<td>**(c)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Squid</td>
<td>5 kg</td>
<td>**(a)** Jigging

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Cast net

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Starfish</td>
<td>6</td>
<td>**(a)** Hand picking

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Diving

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Whelks</td>
<td>75</td>
<td>Hand picking</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Any species of fish not referred to in items 1 to 18</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>**(a)** Angling

</td>
<td>**(a)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** Hand picking while diving

</td>
<td>**(b)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** Dip net

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(d)** Ring net

</td>
<td>**(d)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(e)** Trap

</td>
<td>**(e)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(f)** Hand picking or hand digging

</td>
<td>**(f)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(g)** Spear fishing while diving

</td>
<td>**(g)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(h)** Hand pump

</td>
<td>**(h)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(i)** Hand picking while snorkelling

</td>
<td>**(i)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/98-545, s. 5; SOR/2001-156, ss. 15 to 17(F); SOR/2002-380, s. 11.




### **SCHEDULE VI** 
**(Sections 43, 44 and 48)**
<table>
<h4>Close Times, Size Limits and Quotas for Salmon in Tidal and Non-Tidal Waters</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
<th>Column IV</th>
<th>Column V</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Species</th>
<th>Minimum Overall Length</th>
<th>Overall Length</th>
<th>Daily Quotas</th>
<th>Close Time</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Hatchery chinook salmon</td>
<td>45 cm</td>
<td>**(1)** 50 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(1)** 4

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** over 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(2)** 2

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Wild chinook salmon</td>
<td>45 cm</td>
<td>**(1)** 50 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(1)** 4

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** over 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(2)** 2

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Hatchery coho salmon</td>
<td>30 cm</td>
<td>**(1)** 35 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(1)** 4

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** over 35 cm

</td>
<td>**(2)** 2

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Wild coho salmon</td>
<td>30 cm</td>
<td>**(1)** 35 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(1)** 4

</td>
<td>**(1)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(2)** over 35 cm

</td>
<td>**(2)** 2

</td>
<td>**(2)** From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Sockeye salmon</td>
<td>30 cm</td>
<td>30 cm or more</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Pink salmon</td>
<td>30 cm</td>
<td>30 cm or more</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Chum salmon</td>
<td>30 cm</td>
<td>30 cm or more</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>From 23:00 hrs to 24:00 hrs on December 31</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE VII** 
**(Section 56)**
<table>
<h4>Fishing Quotas and Overall Length Limits for Non-Tidal Waters by Species</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Species</th>
<th>Overall Length</th>
<th>Quota</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Wild rainbow trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Hatchery rainbow trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Wild steelhead</td>
<td>50 cm or more</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Hatchery steelhead</td>
<td>50 cm or more</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Wild cutthroat trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Hatchery cutthroat trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Wild brown trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Hatchery brown trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Wild brook trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Hatchery brook trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Wild Dolly Varden</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Hatchery Dolly Varden</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Wild lake trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Hatchery lake trout</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 30 cm to 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 50 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 6

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Smallmouth bass</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 40 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 4

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 40 cm or more

</td>
<td>**(b)** 4

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Largemouth bass</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 40 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 4

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 40 cm or more

</td>
<td>**(b)** 4

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Whitefish</td>
<td>**(a)** 30 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 15

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 15

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Arctic grayling</td>
<td>**(a)** 30 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 3

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 3

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Black crappie</td>
<td>**(a)** 20 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 25

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 20 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 25

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>Burbot</td>
<td>**(a)** 30 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 10

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 10

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>21</td>
<td>Wild kokanee</td>
<td>**(a)** 30 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 25

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 25

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>22</td>
<td>Hatchery kokanee</td>
<td>**(a)** 30 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 25

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 25

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>23</td>
<td>Northern pike</td>
<td>**(a)** 90 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 5

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 90 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 5

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>24</td>
<td>Walleye</td>
<td>**(a)** 70 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 8

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 70 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 8

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>25</td>
<td>White sturgeon</td>
<td>**(a)** less than 100 cm

</td>
<td>**(a)** 0

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** 100 to 200 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 1

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(c)** more than 200 cm

</td>
<td>**(c)** 0

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>26</td>
<td>Yellow perch</td>
<td>any length</td>
<td>20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>27</td>
<td>Goldeye</td>
<td>any length</td>
<td>10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>28</td>
<td>Inconnu</td>
<td>**(a)** 30 cm or less

</td>
<td>**(a)** 1

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>**(b)** more than 30 cm

</td>
<td>**(b)** 1

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>29</td>
<td>Crayfish</td>
<td>any length</td>
<td>25</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE VIII** 
**(Sections 64 and 65)**
<table>
<h4>Summary of Offences and Fines</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
<th>Column III</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Provision of Regulations</th>
<th>Offence</th>
<th>Fine ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>Molest fish</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>4</td>
<td>Injure fish</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>Fish for protected species</td>
<td>500</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>5</td>
<td>Catch and retain protected species</td>
<td>1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>6(1)(a)</td>
<td>Angle with more than one fishing line</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>6(1)(b)</td>
<td>Angle for white sturgeon with more than one line</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>[Repealed, SOR/98-545, s. 6]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>7</td>
<td>Angle with illegal weight attached to fishing line</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>8(1)</td>
<td>Angle with fishing line to which more than one hook, artificial lure or artificial fly is attached</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>9</td>
<td>Fish with illegal dip net</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>10(1)(a)</td>
<td>Use light to attract fish in an illegal manner</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>10(1)(b)</td>
<td>Catch fish with snares</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>10(1)(b)</td>
<td>Attempt to catch fish with snares</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>10(1)(c)</td>
<td>Wilfully foul hook fish</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>10(1)(c)</td>
<td>Attempt to foul hook fish</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>10(2)</td>
<td>Retain foul-hooked fish</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>11</td>
<td>Angle from a vessel equipped with a motor in prohibited waters</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>12</td>
<td>Angle from a vessel in prohibited waters</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>13(1)</td>
<td>Possess more than twice the daily quota of fish, other than halibut</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>13(2)</td>
<td>Possess more than 3 halibut</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of 3 up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>21</td>
<td>14</td>
<td>Possess sport-caught halibut on board vessel together with other fish destined for sale, trade or barter</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>22</td>
<td>18(1)(a)</td>
<td>Fish without a licence</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>23</td>
<td>18(1)(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain salmon without valid conservation stamp</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>24</td>
<td>[Repealed, SOR/2002-380, s. 12]</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>25</td>
<td>20</td>
<td>Harvest herring spawn on kelp without applicable licence</td>
<td>500</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>26</td>
<td>21</td>
<td>Hold more than one licence</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>27</td>
<td>22</td>
<td>Failure to maintain catch records</td>
<td>100</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>28</td>
<td>24(1)</td>
<td>Fish for fin fish during a close time</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>29</td>
<td>25(1)</td>
<td>Catch and retain fin fish of a species other than salmon in excess of the daily quota</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>30</td>
<td>26(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery trout in any Subarea</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>31</td>
<td>26(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>32</td>
<td>26(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for rockfish</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>33</td>
<td>27</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate annual quota for lingcod</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>34</td>
<td>28</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the annual quota of white sturgeon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>35</td>
<td>29(1)(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized white sturgeon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>36</td>
<td>29(1)(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain oversized white sturgeon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>37</td>
<td>29(1)(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized wild trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>38</td>
<td>29(1)(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized hatchery trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>39</td>
<td>29(1)(d)</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized lingcod</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>40</td>
<td>30</td>
<td>Fish with prohibited gear</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>30</td>
<td>Fish by prohibited method</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>42</td>
<td>31</td>
<td>Fish for eulachon with prohibited gear</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>43</td>
<td>31</td>
<td>Fish for smelt with prohibited gear</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>44</td>
<td>32</td>
<td>Fish for eulachon with more than one net at a time</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>45</td>
<td>32</td>
<td>Fish for smelt with more than one net at a time</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>46</td>
<td>34</td>
<td>Fish for certain fish during close time</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>47</td>
<td>35</td>
<td>Catch and retain certain fish in excess of the daily quota</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>48</td>
<td>36(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for clams</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>49</td>
<td>36(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of Dungeness crab and red rock crab</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>50</td>
<td>36(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of Dungeness crab, red rock crab and king crab</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>51</td>
<td>36(d)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for mussels</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>52</td>
<td>36(e)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of purple-hinged rock and weather-vane scallops</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>53</td>
<td>37(1)(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized abalone</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>54</td>
<td>37(1)(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized Dungeness crab</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>55</td>
<td>37(1)(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized red rock crab</td>
<td>100 plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>56</td>
<td>37(2)</td>
<td>Fail to ensure abalone is of a size that is not prohibited before removing from resting place</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>57</td>
<td>38</td>
<td>Fish with prohibited gear</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>58</td>
<td>38</td>
<td>Fish by prohibited method</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>59</td>
<td>39(1)</td>
<td>Fish for crab with more than two ring nets, dip nets and crab traps in the aggregate</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>59.1</td>
<td>39(2)</td>
<td>Fish for crab with ring net without an attached tag, float or buoy that bears operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>59.2</td>
<td>39(2)</td>
<td>Fish for crab with crab trap without an attached tag, float or buoy that bears operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>60</td>
<td>40(1)</td>
<td>Fish for shrimp with more than four shrimp traps</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>60.1</td>
<td>40(2)</td>
<td>Fish for shrimp with shrimp trap without an attached tag, float or buoy that bears operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>60.2</td>
<td>40.1(1)</td>
<td>Fish for octopus with octopus trap without an attached tag, float or buoy that bears operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61</td>
<td>41</td>
<td>Fish with illegal crab trap</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.1</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Set ring net with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.2</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Set crab trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.3</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Set shrimp trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.4</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Set octopus trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.5</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Operate ring net with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.6</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Operate crab trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.7</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Operate shrimp trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.8</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Operate octopus trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.9</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Leave unattended ring net with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.10</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Leave unattended crab trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.11</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Leave unattended shrimp trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61.12</td>
<td>41.1</td>
<td>Leave unattended octopus trap with tag, float or buoy that does not bear operator’s name</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>62</td>
<td>43</td>
<td>Fish for salmon during close time</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>63</td>
<td>44</td>
<td>Catch and retain salmon in excess of the daily quota</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>64</td>
<td>45(1)(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of hatchery chinook and wild chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>65</td>
<td>45(1)(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of hatchery chinook and wild chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>66</td>
<td>45(1)(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of hatchery chinook and wild chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>67</td>
<td>45(1)(d)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of hatchery coho and wild coho salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>68</td>
<td>45(1)(e)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of hatchery coho and wild coho salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>69</td>
<td>45(1)(f)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota of hatchery coho and wild coho salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>70</td>
<td>45(2)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>71</td>
<td>46</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the monthly quota for chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>72</td>
<td>47(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate annual quota for chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>73</td>
<td>47(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate annual quota for chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>74</td>
<td>47(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate annual quota for chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>75</td>
<td>47(d)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate annual quota for chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>76</td>
<td>47(e)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate annual quota for chinook salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>77</td>
<td>48</td>
<td>Catch and retain undersized salmon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 per fish up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>78</td>
<td>49</td>
<td>Fish for salmon by prohibited method</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>79</td>
<td>49</td>
<td>Fish for salmon with prohibited gear</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>80</td>
<td>49</td>
<td>Fish for salmon with prohibited bait</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>81</td>
<td>50</td>
<td>Fish for salmon other than by angling</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>82</td>
<td>52</td>
<td>Fish for fin fish other than salmon, other than by angling, by spear fishing or with a set line</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>83</td>
<td>53</td>
<td>Fish with a spear for prohibited species in specified Regions</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>84</td>
<td>54(a)</td>
<td>Use more than one set line</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>85</td>
<td>54(b)</td>
<td>Use illegal hook on set line</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>86</td>
<td>54(c)</td>
<td>Retain fish of a prohibited species with a set line</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>87</td>
<td>55(1)</td>
<td>Fish during close time</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>88</td>
<td>55(1)</td>
<td>Catch and retain fish during close time</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>89</td>
<td>56(1)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the daily quota</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>90</td>
<td>56(2)</td>
<td>Fishing after catching and retaining daily quota of steelhead</td>
<td>250</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>91</td>
<td>57(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery rainbow trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>92</td>
<td>57(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery steelhead</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>93</td>
<td>57(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery cutthroat trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>94</td>
<td>57(d)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery brown trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>95</td>
<td>57(e)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery brook trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>96</td>
<td>57(f)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery Dolly Varden</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>97</td>
<td>57(g)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery lake trout</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>98</td>
<td>57(h)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for smallmouth and largemouth bass</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>99</td>
<td>57(i)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota for wild and hatchery kokanee</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>100</td>
<td>58</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate daily quota</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>101</td>
<td>59</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the monthly quota for steelhead</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>102</td>
<td>60(a)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than annual quota for steelhead</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>103</td>
<td>60(b)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the annual quota for white sturgeon</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>104</td>
<td>60(c)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the annual quota for rainbow trout over 50 cm in specified area</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>105</td>
<td>60(d)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the annual quota for rainbow trout over 50 cm in specified area</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>106</td>
<td>60(e)</td>
<td>Catch and retain more than the aggregate annual quota for Dolly Varden and lake trout over 60 cm in specified area</td>
<td>100, plus 50 for each fish in excess of the quota up to a maximum of 1,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>107</td>
<td>61</td>
<td>Use freshwater invertebrate as bait</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>108</td>
<td>61</td>
<td>Possess freshwater invertebrate for use as bait</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>109</td>
<td>62</td>
<td>Deposit fish-attracting substance in water</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>110</td>
<td>63</td>
<td>Fish by prohibited method</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>111</td>
<td>63</td>
<td>Fish with prohibited gear</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>112</td>
<td>63</td>
<td>Fish with prohibited bait</td>
<td>150</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/98-545, ss. 6, 7; SOR/2001-156, ss. 18(E), 19, 20, 21(E), 22(F); SOR/2002-380, ss. 12 to 14; SOR/2010-113, s. 2.


