> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/96/389.md)

# Allocation Method Order — Turkey and Turkey Products

**SOR/96-389**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 15 July 1996

----------

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to paragraph 6.2(2)(a)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby makes the annexed Order establishing the method for allocating the import access quantity for turkey and turkey products.

Ottawa, July 9, 1996

LLOYD AXWORTHY

*Minister of Foreign Affairs*

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 106<br />



**1** [Repealed, SOR/97-39, s. 2]




## Interpretation


**2** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***Act*** means the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md). (*Loi*)

***applicant*** means a resident of Canada who applies for an import allocation. (*requérant*)

***eviscerated turkey*** means a slaughtered turkey from which the blood, feathers, respiratory, digestive, reproductive and urinary systems, head, legs at the hock joint and the oil sack are removed. (*dindon ou dinde éviscéré*)

***eviscerated turkey equivalent*** means the weight of live turkey or boneless turkey as expressed in weight of eviscerated turkey. (*équivalent de dindons ou dindes éviscérés*)

***historical import quota*** means an allocation that was made in 1994 on the basis of an allocation made at the time of the initial imposition of controls and allocations to importers, as adjusted since then. (*contingent historique*)

***turkey and turkey products*** means the goods set out in the schedule. (*dindons, dindes et leurs produits*)

***under-utilization***, in respect of an import allocation, means utilization of less than 90 per cent of the quantity allocated to an applicant. (*sous-utilisation*)




## Method of Allocation


**3** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the method for allocating the import access quantity for turkey and turkey products that may be imported into Canada during each calendar year is as follows:
	- **(a)** an applicant who holds a historical import quota shall receive an equivalent import allocation;
	- **(b)** an applicant who is a processor of turkey-based products not on the *Import Control List* shall receive an import allocation equal to the quantity that the processor used in producing those turkey-based products on an eviscerated turkey equivalent basis during the 12 month period beginning on September 1 and ending August 31 preceding the calendar year in respect of which the import allocation applies;
	- **(c)** during the six month period beginning on January 1 and ending on June 30 of any calendar year, applicants referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) who submit an additional application and all other applicants shall receive a share of any remaining portion of the import access quantity for turkey and turkey products equal or less than the quantity of turkey and turkey products for which they apply, on a first-come first-served basis; and
	- **(d)** in respect of the six month period beginning on July 1 and ending on December 31 of any calendar year, each applicant referred to in paragraph (a) shall receive a share of any remaining portion of the import access quantity for turkey and turkey products, in proportion to its share of the total of all historical import quotas for turkey and turkey products.

- **(2)** The quantity of turkey and turkey products allocated to an applicant under subsection (1) in respect of a calendar year shall be adjusted downward in proportion to any under-utilization by the applicant during the 12 month period preceding the calendar year in respect of which the import allocation applies.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
**1** Live turkeys, weighing more than 185 g, that are classified under tariff item No. 0105.99.11 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**2** Meat and edible offal of turkeys, fresh, chilled or frozen, not cut in pieces, that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.24.11, 0207.24.91, 0207.25.11 or 0207.25.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**3** Cuts of meat and edible offal, including livers, of turkeys, fresh, chilled or frozen, that are classified under tariff item No. 0207.26.10, 0207.27.11 or 0207.27.91 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**4** Turkey fat (not rendered or otherwise extracted), fresh, chilled or frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0209.00.23 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**5** Meat of turkeys, salted, in brine, dried or smoked, that is classified under tariff item No. 0210.99.14 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**6** Sausages and similar products, made from meat, meat offal or blood of turkeys, and food preparations based on those products (other than in cans or glass jars), that are classified under tariff item No. 1601.00.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**7** Prepared or preserved liver paste, made from turkeys (other than in cans or glass jars), that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.20.31 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**8** Prepared meals, made from turkeys (other than specially defined mixtures), that are classified under tariff item No. 1602.31.12 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


**9** Prepared or preserved meat or meat offal of turkeys (other than prepared meals and specially defined mixtures and other than in cans or glass jars) that is classified under tariff item No. 1602.31.93 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md).


> SOR/97-39, s. 3; SOR/98-78. ss. 1, 2; SOR/2002-88, s. 1.


