> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/96/440.md)

# Ontario Hog Charges (Interprovincial and Export) Order

**SOR/96-440**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 12 September 1996

----------

The Ontario Pork Producers’ Marketing Board, pursuant to sections 3<sup><a href='#footnotea'>[a]</a></sup> and 4<sup>[a]</sup> of the [Ontario Pork Producers’ Marketing Order](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/79/418.md)<sup><a href='#footnoteb'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Ontario Hog Charges (Interprovincial and Export) Order.

<a name='footnotea'><sup>a</sup></a>: SOR/86-240<br />

<a name='footnoteb'><sup>b</sup></a>: SOR/79-418<br />

Etobicoke, Ontario, September 11, 1996




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***Commodity Board*** means the Ontario Pork Producers’ Marketing Board established pursuant to the Farm Products Marketing Act of Ontario. (*Office*)

***hogs*** means hogs produced in Ontario. (*porcs*)

***producer*** means a person engaged in the production of hogs. (*producteur*) 

***weanling hogs*** means hogs that have a weight of less than 56 kilograms. (*porcelets sevrés*)
> SOR/97-166, s. 1(F); SOR/2013-86, s. 1.





## Application


**2** Subject to section 3, this Order applies to the marketing, in interprovincial and export trade by persons in Ontario, of weanling hogs that are not marketed for the purpose of slaughter and all other hogs that are marketed for the purpose of slaughter.
> SOR/2013-86, s. 2.





## Exemptions


**3** This Order does not apply to producers in the County of Haliburton and the Territorial Districts of Ontario except for the Territorial Districts of Cochrane and Timiskaming.



**4** [Repealed, SOR/2013-86, s. 3]




## Charges


**5** Each producer shall pay to the Commodity Board the following charge for each hog marketed in interprovincial or export trade by or on behalf of the producer:
- **(a)** $0.20 for a weanling hog; and
- **(b)** $1.00 for any other hog.
> SOR/97-166, s. 2; SOR/98-198, s. 1; SOR/2004-180, s. 1; SOR/2004-256, s. 1; SOR/2004-303, s. 1; SOR/2005-13, s. 1; SOR/2008-243, s. 1; SOR/2009-6, s. 1; SOR/2010-280, s. 1; SOR/2013-86, s. 4.





## Method of Payment


**6** 

- **(1)** Where hogs are marketed through the Commodity Board, the Commodity Board shall deduct the charge imposed pursuant to section 5 from the moneys payable by the Commodity Board to the producer for the sale of the hogs.

- **(2)** Where the charge payable in respect of hogs marketed by or on behalf of a producer has not been deducted in the manner described in subsection (1), the producer shall remit the charge to the Commodity Board at its office located at 15 Waulron Street, Etobicoke, Ontario, no later than the 15th day of the month following the month in which the hogs were marketed.




## Coming into Force


**7** This Order comes into force on September 12, 1996.


