> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/2009/22.md)

# Rule 64 — Prerogative Writ

**SI/2009-22**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CRIMINAL CODE](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md)

Date registered: 1 April 2009

----------

The Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, pursuant to section 482<sup><a href='#fn_612176-E_hq_6202'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md)<sup><a href='#fn_612176-E_hq_6509'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Rule 64 — Prerogative Writ.

<a name='fn_612176-E_hq_6202'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 13, s. 17<br />

<a name='fn_612176-E_hq_6509'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. C-46<br />

Halifax, Nova Scotia, February 27, 2009


<p>THE HONORABLE JOSEPH P. KENNEDY<br />*Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Nova Scotia*<br /></p>




## **Scope of Rule 64**


**64.01** 

- **(1)** This Rule is made under subsections 482(1) and (3) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).

- **(2)** A person may apply for a prerogative writ in relation to a criminal proceeding, or imprisonment, in accordance with this Rule.




## **Writ is granted by order**


**64.02** A judge may grant an order having the effect of mandamus, certiorari, prohibition, or *habeas corpus* in relation to a criminal proceeding, or imprisonment.




## **Mandamus, certiorari, and prohibition**


**64.03** 

- **(1)** A person who wishes to obtain an order having the effect of mandamus, certiorari, or prohibition may start the proceeding by filing a notice for judicial review in the form prescribed by Rule 7 — Judicial Review and Appeal.

- **(2)** The notice must be filed no more than twenty-five days after the day of the decision under review, another action under review, or an alleged failure to act, unless a longer period is allowed by a judge under Rule 2.03(1)(c) of Rule 2 — General.

- **(3)** Rules 7.05, 7.06, and 7.08 to 7.10 of Rule 7 — Judicial Review and Appeal apply to a judicial review for mandamus, certiorari, or prohibition to the extent that they are consistent with the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) and this Rule.

- **(4)** Notice must be given to the Crown as a respondent by delivering a copy of the notice for judicial review to the office of the person who represents the Crown in the proceeding under review.

- **(5)** Notice must be given to a respondent who is not the Crown in accordance with the provisions for giving notice of a proceeding to a party in Rule 31 — Notice.




## **Habeas corpus**


**64.04** 

- **(1)** A person under imprisonment, or other criminal detention, may obtain a review of the legality of the detention by filing a notice for *habeas corpus* in the form prescribed by Rule 7 — Judicial Review and Appeal.

- **(2)** Rules 7.12 to 7.17 of Rule 7 — Judicial Review and Appeal apply to an application for *habeas corpus* brought in relation to a criminal proceeding or imprisonment, to the extent that they are consistent with the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).




## **Other Rules apply**


**64.05** All Rules outside this Rule apply to the extent that they provide procedures suitable to mandamus, certiorari, prohibition, or *habeas corpus* in connection with a criminal proceeding or imprisonment and are consistent with the provisions of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) and this Rule.


