> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/97/479.md)

# Order Respecting the Remission of Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties on Certain Specialty Sugar Products

**SOR/97-479**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CUSTOMS TARIFF](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)

Date registered: 23 October 1997

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 101 of the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR_97-479_EN_hq_5322'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Order Respecting the Remission of Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties on Certain Specialty Sugar Products.

<a name='fn_SOR_97-479_EN_hq_5322'><sup>a</sup></a>: R.S., c. 41 (3rd Supp.)<br />




## Remission


**1** Subject to section 2, remission is hereby granted of anti-dumping and countervailing duties paid or payable under Part I of the [Special Import Measures Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-15.md) on the specialty sugar products set out in the attached schedule.




## Conditions


**2** Remission is granted pursuant to section 1 on the condition that:
- **(a)** the goods on which remission is granted are released by Customs on or after November 6, 1995 and until such time as this Order is revoked;
- **(b)** a claim for remission is made to the Minister of National Revenue within three years after the day on which this Order comes into force or within three years after the goods to which this order applies are released by Revenue Canada, whichever is the later date; and
- **(c)** the importer files such evidence as Revenue Canada may require to determine that the subject sugar meets the product descriptions.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on October 23, 1997.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
<table>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Bottler’s floc-free beet sugar imported for use in pharmaceutical preparations where it is established by the importer that floc-free beet sugar from Canadian sources does not meet the applicable product specifications.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Golden, pouring and other table syrups imported in retail-ready packaging in containers not exceeding 3 litres.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Subject to the exception below, specialty wrapped sugar cubes, each individual wrapping containing not more than 3 sugar cubes, imported in retail-ready packages not exceeding 5 kg in weight. This exclusion does not include generic wrapped white sugar cubes (i.e. where the illustration consists of primarily a trade-mark, trade-name, company name or other commercial identification as opposed to a unique illustration).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Pre-cut specialty shaped sugar pieces, imported in retail-ready packaging, in packages not exceeding 1 kg in weight. For greater clarity, these include diamond-, heart-, spade- and club-shaped sugar but do not include cube- or domino- (i.e. rectangular) shaped sugar.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Rough-shaped lumps and pieces, in lumps or pieces, weighing between 3 to 10 grams on average, imported in retail-ready packaging, in individual packages not exceeding 1 kg in weight.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Very large crystal sugar, in crystals exceeding 0.05 g in weight on average, imported in retail-ready packaging, in individual packages not exceeding 1 kg in weight.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Specialty sugar cubes and dominoes (i.e. rectangles), made from demerara, brown, yellow or any other non-white sugar, imported in retail-ready packaging, in packages not exceeding 1 kg in weight. For greater clarity, this does not include any sugar cube or domino made from white granulated sugar.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Low-colour liquid sucrose with a colour no higher than 10 maximum ICUMSA (International Commission for Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis) colour units and distiller’s grade liquid sucrose imported for use in the production of distilled spirits where it is established by the importer that low-colour liquid sucrose and distiller’s grade liquid sucrose from Canadian sources do not meet the applicable product specifications.</td>
</tr>
</table>


