> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/97/77.md)

# General Import Permit No. 193 — Roses

**SOR/97-77**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 30 December 1996

----------

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection (1.1)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR_97-77_EN_hq_5316'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby makes the annexed General Import Permit No. 193 — Roses.

<a name='fn_SOR_97-77_EN_hq_5316'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 108(1)<br />

Ottawa, December 30, 1996


<p>LLOYD AXWORTHY<br />*Minister of Foreign Affairs*<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Permit.

***imported from Israel or another CIFTA beneficiary*** has the meaning assigned by the [Regulations Defining Certain Expressions for the Purposes of the Customs Tariff](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/97/62.md). (*importé d’Israël ou d’un autre bénéficiaire de l’ALÉCI*)

***roses*** means cut roses and rose buds, fresh, suitable for bouquets or ornamental purposes that are classified under tariff item No. 0603.10.11 or under heading No. 98.04 or 98.06 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md). (*roses*)
> SOR/98-76, s. 1.





## General


**2** Subject to section 4, a resident of Canada may, under the authority of this Permit, import from Israel or another CIFTA beneficiary, roses.



**3** Where roses imported under the authority of this Permit are required to be accounted for in the prescribed form under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), that form shall contain the statement “Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 193 — Roses” or “*Importé en vertu de la Licence générale d’importation no 193 — Roses*”.



**4** This Permit applies only to roses that are imported and accounted for under subsection 32(1), (3) or (5) of the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md) on or before the day, in a calendar year, on which the annual quota of 90,000 dozen roses as set out in the [Order Specifying Limits on the Annual Aggregate Quantity of Roses of Tariff Item No. 0603.10.11 that are Entitled to the Canada-Israel Agreement Tariff](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/97/60.md) is reached.
> SOR/98-76, s. 2.





## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_Ind7417_hq_16397'>[*]</a></sup>**5** This Permit comes into force on the day on which section 45 of the [Canada-Israel Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2033.md), chapter 33 of the Statutes of Canada, 1996, comes into force.

<a name='fn_Ind7417_hq_16397'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Permit in force January 1, 1997, *see* SI/97-9.]<br />


