> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/2002/65.md)

# National Parks of Canada Land Rents Remission Order, No. 3

**SI/2002-65**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 24 April 2002

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, considering that it is in the public interest to do so, on the recommendation of the Minister of Canadian Heritage and the Treasury Board, pursuant to subsection 23(2.1)<sup><a href='#fn_SI-2002-65_e_hq_6430'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), hereby makes the annexed National Parks of Canada Land Rents Remission Order, No. 3.

<a name='fn_SI-2002-65_e_hq_6430'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 24, s. 7(2)<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***Act*** means the [Canada National Parks Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2000/c.%2032.md). (*Loi*)

***Regulations*** means the National Parks Lease and Licence of Occupation Regulations (1991). (*Règlement*)




## Remission — Ten-year Period


**2** Remission is hereby granted of the amount set out in section 3 to every person who has a leasehold interest in public lands that are situated in a national park set out in Schedule 1 to the Act if the amount of rent payable in respect of those lands has been fixed in the year 2000 for a ten-year period beginning in that year, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease and the Regulations.



**3** The amount of remission referred to in section 2 shall be equal to the amount by which
- **(a)** the rental rate for the first four months of the third year of the ten-year period beginning in the year 2000
exceeds
- **(b)** the rental rate for the last four months of the last year of the ten-year period ending in the year 2000.




## Remission — Two-year Period


**4** Remission is hereby granted of the amount set out in section 5 to every person who has a leasehold interest in public lands that are situated in a national park set out in Schedule 1 to the Act if the amount of rent payable in respect of those lands has been or is due to be fixed in the year 2002 for a two-year period beginning in that year, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease and the Regulations.



**5** The amount of remission referred to in section 4 shall be equal to the amount by which
- **(a)** the rental rate for the first four months of the first year of the two-year period beginning in the year 2002
exceeds
- **(b)** the rental rate for the last four months of the second year of the two-year period ending in the year 2000.




## Remission — Town of Jasper


**6** Remission is hereby granted of the amount set out in section 7 to every person who has a leasehold interest in public lands that are situated in the Town of Jasper, in Jasper National Park of Canada as set out in Schedule 1 to the Act, if the amount of rent payable in respect of those lands is fixed in the year 2002 at $1.00 per annum in accordance with the Agreement for the Establishment of Local Government in the Town of Jasper between Her Majesty the Queen in right of Canada and the Municipality of Jasper, the terms of the applicable lease and the Regulations.



**7** The amount of remission referred to in section 6 shall be equal to the amount of the annual rental rate under the Regulations for the period April 1, 2002 to July 31, 2002.


