> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2018/156.md)

# Critical Habitat of the Lake Chubsucker (Erimyzon sucetta) Order

**SOR/2018-156**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SPECIES AT RISK ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2029.md)

Date registered: 6 July 2018

----------

Whereas the Lake Chubsucker (*Erimyzon sucetta*) is a wildlife species that is listed as an endangered species in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the [Species at Risk Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2029.md)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup>;

<a name='fn_a'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 29<br />

Whereas the recovery strategy that identified the critical habitat of that species has been included in the Species at Risk Public Registry;

Whereas a portion of the critical habitat of that species is in a place referred to in subsection 58(2)<sup><a href='#fn_b'>[b]</a></sup> of that Act and, under subsection 58(5) of that Act, that portion must be excluded from the annexed Order;

<a name='fn_b'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2015, c. 10, s. 60<br />

Whereas, pursuant to subsection 58(5) of that Act, the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans has consulted with the Minister responsible for the Parks Canada Agency, namely the Minister of the Environment, with respect to the annexed Order;

And whereas the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans is of the opinion that the annexed Order would affect a reserve or any other lands that are set apart for the use and benefit of a band and, pursuant to subsection 58(7) of that Act, has consulted with the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and the band with respect to the Order;

Therefore, the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, pursuant to subsections 58(4) and (5) of the [Species at Risk Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2029.md)<sup><a href='#fn_a'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Critical Habitat of the Lake Chubsucker (Erimyzon sucetta) Order.

Ottawa, July 3, 2018


<table>
<tr>
<td>
<p>*Le ministre des Pêches et des Océans,*<br />_________________________<br />Dominic LeBlanc<br />Minister of Fisheries and Oceans<br /></p></td>
</tr>
</table>





**Application**

**1** Subsection 58(1) of the [Species at Risk Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2029.md) applies to the critical habitat of the Lake Chubsucker (*Erimyzon sucetta*) — which is identified in the recovery strategy for that species that is included in the Species at Risk Public Registry — other than the portion of that critical habitat that is in a place referred to in subsection 58(2) of that Act, more specifically, in Point Pelee National Park of Canada as described in Part 5 of Schedule 1 to the [Canada National Parks Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2000/c.%2032.md) and in Big Creek National Wildlife Area, Long Point National Wildlife Area and St. Clair National Wildlife Area as described in Part IV of Schedule I to the [Wildlife Area Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/1601-1700/C.R.C.,%20c.%201609.md).




**Critical habitat**

**2** 

- **(1)** For greater certainty, section 1 applies to that species’ critical habitat that is contained within the following areas:
	- **(a)** the entire Old Ausable Channel, Ontario, from the mouth of the channel (latitude 43°18′35.560″ N, longitude 81°45′47.797″ W) to its end at Grand Bend (latitude 43°13′57.309″ N, longitude 81°52′37.392″ W), as illustrated in Map 1 of the schedule;
	- **(b)** all contiguous waters and wetlands of L Lake, Ontario, including the northern and western tips of that lake where it is bisected by Outer Drive and the seasonal wetlands to the north of that lake, within the area set out in Table 1 of the schedule in respect of that lake, as illustrated in Map 2 of the schedule;
	- **(c)** the contiguous waters and wetlands of Rondeau Bay, Ontario, within the area set out in Table 1 of the schedule in respect of that bay, as illustrated in Map 3 of the schedule;
	- **(d)** the contiguous waters and wetlands of Long Point Bay, Ontario, including the ponds along the spit that forms the southern boundary of that bay, within the area set out in Table 1 of the schedule in respect of that bay, as illustrated in Map 4 of the schedule, but excluding the portion of that critical habitat that is in the Long Point National Wildlife Area; and
	- **(e)** all contiguous waters and wetlands of Lyons Creek, Ontario, from the Welland Canal (latitude 42°58′29.038″ N, longitude 79°13′12.175″ W) to Montrose Road (latitude 43°00′19.797″ N, longitude 79°07′25.073″ W), as illustrated in Map 5 of the schedule.

**Features and attributes**

- **(2)** The critical habitat of the species includes the key features and attributes set out in columns 3 and 4 of Table 2 of the schedule.




**Coming into force**

**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
#### TABLE 1
<table>
<h4>Coordinates of the Areas Within Which the Critical Habitat of the Lake Chubsucker is Found</h4>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
<th>Column 5</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Location</th>
<th>Point 1 (NW)</th>
<th>Point 2 (NE)</th>
<th>Point 3 (SE)</th>
<th>Point 4 (SW)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>L Lake</td>
<td>Latitude 43°13′27.490″ N, longitude 81°55′17.517″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 43°13′40.029″ N, longitude 81°54′29.740″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 43°13′24.085″ N, longitude 81°54′20.904″ W</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Rondeau Bay</td>
<td>Latitude 42°16′58.396″ N, longitude 81°53′50.301″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 42°19′34.763″ N, longitude 81°51′19.993″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 42°19′32.256″ N, longitude 81°50′42.122″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 42°16′03.673″ N, longitude 81°52′40.250″ W</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Long Point Bay</td>
<td>Latitude 42°40′45.822″ N, longitude 80°19′57.794″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 42°33′04.619″ N, longitude 80°02′20.594″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 42°34′43.393″ N, longitude 80°26′24.629″ W</td>
<td>Latitude 42°36′36.151″ N, longitude 80°27′31.869″ W</td>
</tr>
</table>


**MAPS** 

> Image: Map 1 is a map of the portion of Lake Huron’s south-eastern shore that surrounds the Old Ausable Channel. The extent of the Lake Chubsucker’s critical habitat is illustrated and includes the length of the Old Ausable Channel from its mouth, denoted by the point P2, to its end at Grand Bend, denoted by the point P1. The map indicates Lake Chubsucker capture points (1982–2005) as well as Ontario fish distribution sampling sites (1846–2007). A smaller scale map including the area depicted by Map 1 and its surroundings is inset at the top left corner.

> Image: Map 2 is a map of a portion of Lake Huron’s south-eastern shore, inland to L Lake. Three points, namely, P1, P2 and P3, form a triangle on the map within which the extent of the Lake Chubsucker’s critical habitat is illustrated for L Lake. The map indicates Lake Chubsucker capture points (2007) as well as Ontario fish distribution sampling sites (1846–2007). A smaller scale map including the area depicted by Map 2 and its surroundings is inset at the top left corner.

> Image: Map 3 is a map of the portion Lake Erie’s north shore that surrounds Rondeau Bay and Rondeau Provincial Park. Four points, namely, P1, P2, P3 and P4, form a quadrangle on the map within which the extent of the Lake Chubsucker’s critical habitat is illustrated. The critical habitat is located within Rondeau Provincial Park and is bounded on the east side by Marsh Trail. The map indicates Lake Chubsucker capture points (1955–2005) as well as Ontario fish distribution sampling sites (1846–2007). A smaller scale map including the area depicted by Map 3 and its surroundings is inset at the top left corner.

> Image: Map 4 is a map of the portion of Lake Erie’s north shore that abuts Long Point Bay, Long Point and Turkey Point. The extent of the Lake Chubsucker’s critical habitat is illustrated and includes waters and wetlands that extend along Lake Erie’s shoreline from Turkey Point, along Inner Long Point Bay and out to the tip of Long Point. Four points, namely, P1, P2, P3 and P4, provide markers delimiting the area within which the critical habitat is located. The map indicates Lake Chubsucker capture points (1953–2007; 1955 and 2005) as well as Ontario fish distribution sampling sites (1846–2007). A smaller scale map including the area depicted by Map 4 and its surroundings is inset at the top left corner.

> Image: Map 5 is a map of Lyons Creek. The location of the Lake Chubsucker’s critical habitat is illustrated and extends from the Welland Canal, denoted by the point P2, to Montrose Road, denoted by the point P1. The map indicates Lake Chubsucker capture points (2004, 2008) as well as Ontario fish distribution sampling sites (1846–2008). A smaller scale map including the area depicted by Map 5 and its surroundings is inset at the top left corner.

#### TABLE 2
<table>
<h4>Key Features and Attributes of Critical Habitat</h4>
<tr>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Life Stage</th>
<th>Function</th>
<th>Features</th>
<th>Attributes</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Spawn to hatch</td>
<td>Spawning, cover, nursery</td>
<td>Areas that seasonally support aquatic vegetation</td>
<td>
- **•** Shallow water (0–2 m) of bays, ponds, marshes, lower reaches of tributaries
- **•** Abundant submerged aquatic vegetation
- **•** Water temperatures of approximately 20°C from April to June</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Young-of-the-year, juvenile, adult</td>
<td>Feeding, cover, nursery</td>
<td>Areas that seasonally support aquatic vegetation</td>
<td>
- **•** Calm and shallow water (0–2 m)
- **•** Abundant aquatic vegetation
- **•** Substrates of sand, silt, clay, organic debris
- **•** Low turbidity</td>
</tr>
</table>


