> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2018/167.md)

# Proclamation Declaring that the Government Corporations Operation Act is Applicable to Project Deliver I Ltd.

**SOR/2018-167**

Enabling authorities: 
- [GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS OPERATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md)

Date registered: 27 July 2018

----------

Julie Payette

[L.S.]

Canada

ELIZABETH THE SECOND, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories QUEEN, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith.


<p>Nathalie G. Drouin <br />Deputy Attorney General<br /></p>

Great Seal of Canada

TO ALL TO WHOM these presents shall come or whom the same may in any way concern,

GREETING:



## A proclamation


Whereas section 6 of the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) provides that the Act applies to a corporation only from the date of issue of a proclamation by the Governor in Council declaring the Act to be applicable to that corporation;

Whereas, by Order in Council P.C. 2018-0681 of June 1, 2018, the Governor in Council directed that a proclamation do issue declaring that the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) is applicable to 10804126 CANADA INC.;

Whereas, on June 12, 2018, the corporate name of 10804126 CANADA INC. was changed to Project Deliver I Ltd.;

Whereas Project Deliver I Ltd. is a corporation incorporated under the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-44.md) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Canada Development Investment Corporation;

And whereas, pursuant to section 3 of the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md), the Canada Development Investment Corporation is for all its purposes an agent of Her Majesty in right of Canada and therefore, in accordance with the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), all of the issued shares of Project Deliver I Ltd. are owned by Her Majesty in right of Canada;

Now know you that We, by and with the advice of Our Privy Council for Canada, do by this Our proclamation declare that the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) is applicable to Project Deliver I Ltd.

Of all which Our Loving Subjects and all others whom these presents may concern are required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.

In testimony whereof, We have caused this Our Proclamation to be published and the Great Seal of Canada to be affixed to it.

WITNESS:

Our Right Trusty and Well-beloved Julie Payette, Chancellor and Principal Companion of Our Order of Canada, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Military Merit, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Merit of the Police Forces, Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada.



AT OUR GOVERNMENT HOUSE, in Our City of Ottawa, this eighteenth day of July in the year of Our Lord two thousand and eighteen and in the sixty-seventh year of Our Reign.

BY COMMAND,


<p>John Knubley<br />Deputy Registrar General of Canada<br /></p>




