> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2018/36.md)

# United Nations University International Network on Water, Environment and Health – Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2018-36**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 7 March 2018

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, pursuant to subsections 5(1)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3181-E_hq_21167'>[a]</a></sup> and (2)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3181-E_hq_21169'>[b]</a></sup> and 13(3)<sup><a href='#fn_18812_hq_20520'>[c]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3181-E_hq_21170'>[d]</a></sup>, makes the annexed United Nations University International Network on Water, Environment and Health – Privileges and Immunities Order.

<a name='fn_81000-2-3181-E_hq_21167'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, ss. 3(1) to (4)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-3181-E_hq_21169'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1995, c. 5, par. 25(1)(n)<br />

<a name='fn_18812_hq_20520'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 8<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-3181-E_hq_21170'><sup>d</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Act*** means the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Loi*)

***Agreement*** means the Agreement Between the Government of Canada and the United Nations University Concerning the United Nations University International Network on Water, Environment and Health set out in Schedule IV to the Act. (*Accord*)

***United Nations Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the Act. (*Convention des Nations Unies*)

***Director*** has the meaning assigned by the definition the Director in Article I of the Agreement. (*Directeur*)

***experts*** has the same meaning as in Article I of the Agreement. (*experts*)

***International Network on Water, Environment and Health*** or ***INWEH*** has the same meaning as in Article I of the Agreement. (*Réseau international pour l’eau, l’environnement et la santé* ou *RIEES*)

***officials*** has the same meaning as in Article I of the Agreement. (*fonctionnaires*)

***personnel of INWEH*** has the same meaning as in Article I of the Agreement. (*personnel du RIEES*)

***University*** has the meaning assigned by the definition the University in Article I of the Agreement. (*Université*)

***Vienna Convention*** means the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations set out in Schedule I to the Act. (*Convention de Vienne*)




## Privileges and Immunities



**INWEH**

**2** 

- **(1)** INWEH shall have the legal capacity of a body corporate and the privileges and immunities set out in Articles II and III of the United Nations Convention.

**Director and family**

- **(2)** The Director and members of his or her family that form part of his or her household, unless they are Canadian citizens or permanent residents in Canada as defined by applicable Canadian legislation, shall have privileges and immunities comparable to those accorded to diplomatic agents, and members of their families forming part of their households, under the Vienna Convention.

**Officials of the University – Section 19**

- **(3)** Officials of the University within the scope of Section 19 of Article V of the United Nations Convention and members of their families that form part of their households shall have, to the extent set out in Sections 18 and 19 of Article V and Article VII of the United Nations Convention, the privileges and immunities comparable to those accorded to diplomatic agents, and members of their families forming part of their households, under the Vienna Convention.

**Officials of the University**

- **(4)** Officials of the University shall have the privileges and immunities set out in Section 18 of Article V of the United Nations Convention.

**Experts**

- **(5)** Experts of the University shall have the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the United Nations Convention.

**Personnel of INWEH**

- **(6)** Personnel of INWEH shall have, to the extent set out in section 4 of Article IX of the Agreement, privileges and immunities comparable to those accorded to diplomatic agents under Articles 31 and 35 and paragraph (1)(b) of Article 36 of the Vienna Convention.




## Consequential Amendment to the Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act


**3** [Amendment]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


