> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2018/75.md)

# Nova Scotia Hog Marketing Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order

**SOR/2018-75**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 20 April 2018

----------

Pork Nova Scotia, formerly known as the Pork Producers Marketing Board of Nova Scotia, pursuant to sections 3 and 4<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3079-E_hq_20807'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Nova Scotia Hog Order](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/101-200/C.R.C.,%20c.%20167.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3079-E_hq_19948'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Nova Scotia Hog Marketing Levies (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order.

<a name='fn_81000-2-3079-E_hq_20807'><sup>a</sup></a>: SOR/80-90<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-3079-E_hq_19948'><sup>b</sup></a>: C.R.C., c. 167<br />

Bible Hill, April 18, 2018




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***contract grower*** means a person who raises hogs that they do not own on behalf of a producer. *(éleveur-contractant)*

***cull boar*** means an uncastrated hog that is no longer used for breeding and is marketed for slaughter. *(verrat de réforme)*

***cull sow*** means a female hog that is no longer used for breeding and is marketed for slaughter. *(truie de réforme)*

***feeder hog*** means a hog that is at least 30 days old and is marketed for hog production instead of for slaughter. *(porc d’engraissement)*

***market hog*** means a hog other than a weanling, feeder hog, cull sow, stag or cull boar. *(porc de marché)*

***producer*** means a person who owns hogs that are bred or raised in Nova Scotia for commercial purposes or that are produced or marketed in Nova Scotia but does not include a processor or contract grower. *(producteur)*

***stag*** means a castrated hog that has been used for breeding. *(verrat castré)*

***weanling*** means a hog that is at least 10 days old but is younger than 30 days old. *(porc sevré)*




## Levies


**2** Every producer shall pay to the Commodity Board the following levies in respect of any hogs sold by the producer in interprovincial and export trade:
- **(a)** $0.25 for weanlings; and
- **(b)** $2.00 for stags, cull boars, feeder hogs, market hogs and cull sows.




## Remittance of Levies and Report


**3** Every producer shall, for the reporting periods set out in column 1 of the schedule and by the deadline set out in column 2 of the schedule,
- **(a)** remit to the Commodity Board the levies referred to in section 2; and
- **(b)** provide the Commodity Board with a quarterly report that sets out the number of weanlings, stags, cull boars, feeder hogs, market hogs and cull sows sold by the producer in interprovincial and export trade.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.




### **Schedule** 
**(Section 3)**
<table>
<h4>Reporting Periods and Deadlines</h4>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Quarter</th>
<th>Quarterly Reporting Periods</th>
<th>Deadline for Levy Remittances and Quarterly Reports</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>January 1 to March 31</td>
<td>April 30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>April 1 to June 30</td>
<td>July 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>July 1 to September 30</td>
<td>October 31</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>October 1 to December 31</td>
<td>January 31</td>
</tr>
</table>


