> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2018/82.md)

# Children’s Jewellery Regulations

**SOR/2018-82**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 23 April 2018

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 37<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-275_E_hq_20542'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Canada Consumer Product Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81200-2-275_E_hq_20543'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Children’s Jewellery Regulations.

<a name='fn_81200-2-275_E_hq_20542'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2016, c. 9, s. 67<br />

<a name='fn_81200-2-275_E_hq_20543'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2010, c. 21<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***children’s jewellery*** means jewellery that is manufactured, sized, decorated, packaged, advertised or sold in a manner that appeals primarily to children under 15 years of age but does not include merit badges, medals for achievement or other similar objects normally worn only occasionally. (*bijoux pour enfants*)

***good laboratory practices*** means practices that are in accordance with the principles set out in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development document entitled OECD Principles of Good Laboratory Practice, Number 1 of the OECD Series on Principles of Good Laboratory Practice and Compliance Monitoring, ENV/MC/CHEM(98)17, the English version of which is dated January 21, 1998 and the French version of which is dated March 6, 1998. (*bonnes pratiques de laboratoire*)




## Requirements



**Lead content**

**2** Children’s jewellery, when tested using good laboratory practices, must not contain more than 90 mg/kg of lead.




**Cadmium content**

**3** Children’s jewellery, when tested using good laboratory practices, must not contain more than 130 mg/kg of cadmium if the jewellery item is small enough to be totally enclosed in the small parts cylinder illustrated in the schedule when a force of not more than 4.45 N is applied.




## Repeal


**4** The Children’s Jewellery Regulations<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-2018-82_e_hq_21852'>[1]</a></sup> are repealed.

<a name='fn_SOR-2018-82_e_hq_21852'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/2016-168<br />




## Coming into Force



**Six months after publication**

<sup><a href='#fn_Ind1C75_hq_21882'>[*]</a></sup>**5** These Regulations come into force on the day that, in the sixth month after the month in which they are published in the Canada Gazette, Part II, has the same calendar number as the day on which they are published or, if that sixth month has no day with that number, the last day of that sixth month.

<a name='fn_Ind1C75_hq_21882'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force November 2, 2018.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 3)**
## Small Parts Cylinder
> Image: A sectional view of the small parts cylinder which is a hollow cylinder with an inner diameter of 31.7 mm. The inner base of the cylinder is diagonal at a 45° angle so that the minimum depth of the cylinder is 25.4 mm and the maximum depth of the cylinder is 57.1 mm.


