> [Go to French version](/fr/Lois/Lois%20révisées%20du%20Canada/N/N-22.md)

# Navigation Protection Act

**R.S.C. 1985, c. N-22**


----------



## Short Title



**Short title**

**1** This Act may be cited as the Navigation Protection Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 1; 2012, c. 31, s. 316.





## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**2** The following definitions apply in this Act.

***designated work*** means a minor work or a work that is constructed or placed in, on, over, under, through or across any minor water. (*ouvrage désigné*)

***ferry cable***[Repealed, 2012, c. 31, s. 317]

***Indigenous knowledge*** means the Indigenous knowledge of the Indigenous peoples of Canada. (*connaissances autochtones*)

***Indigenous peoples of Canada*** has the meaning assigned by the definition aboriginal peoples of Canada in subsection 35(2) of the Constitution Act, 1982. (*peuples autochtones du Canada*)

***Minister*** means the Minister of Transport. (*ministre*)

***minor water*** means any navigable water designated under paragraph 28(2)(b). (*eaux secondaires*)

***minor work*** means any work designated under paragraph 28(2)(a). (*ouvrage secondaire*)

***navigable water*** includes a canal and any other body of water created or altered as a result of the construction of any work. (*eaux navigables*)

***obstruction*** means a vessel, or part of one, that is wrecked, sunk, partially sunk, lying ashore or grounded, or any thing, that obstructs or impedes navigation or renders it more difficult or dangerous, but does not include a thing of natural origin unless a person causes the thing of natural origin to obstruct or impede navigation or to render it more difficult or dangerous. (*obstacle*)

***owner***, in relation to a work, means the actual or reputed owner of the work or that owner’s agent or mandatary. It includes a person who is in possession or claiming ownership of the work and a person who is authorizing or otherwise responsible for the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal, decommissioning, maintenance, operation, safety or use of the work. It also includes a person who proposes to construct or place a work. (*propriétaire*)

***person in charge***, with respect to an obstruction, includes the owner of the obstruction and, in the case of a vessel, or part of one, that is an obstruction, the registered owner or other owner at the time the obstruction was occasioned, as well as the managing owner, master and any subsequent purchaser. (*responsable*)

***Tribunal*** means the Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada established by subsection 2(1) of the [Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2029.md). (*Tribunal*)

***vessel*** includes every description of ship, boat or craft of any kind, without regard to method or lack of propulsion and to whether it is used as a sea-going vessel or on inland waters only, including everything forming part of its machinery, tackle, equipment, cargo, stores or ballast. (*bâtiment*)

***work*** includes any structure, device or thing, whether temporary or permanent, that is made by humans. It also includes the dumping of fill or the excavation of materials from the bed of any navigable water. (*ouvrage*)
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 2; 2009, c. 2, s. 317; 2012, c. 31, s. 317; 2019, c. 28, s. 47.





## Her Majesty



**Binding on Her Majesty**

**2.1** This Act is binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 318.





## Works



**Prohibition**

**3** It is prohibited to construct, place, alter, repair, rebuild, remove or decommission a work in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule except in accordance with this Act or any other federal Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 3; 2009, c. 2, s. 320; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Opt in**

**4** 

- **(1)** An owner of a work that is constructed or placed, or proposed to be constructed or placed, in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water, other than any navigable water that is listed in the schedule, may request that this Act be made applicable to the work as if it were a work that is constructed or placed, or proposed to be constructed or placed, in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule.

**Request**

- **(2)** The request shall be made to the Minister in the form and manner, and contain the information, that is specified by the Minister and shall be accompanied by the applicable fee.

**Deeming**

- **(3)** The Minister may accept the request if he or she considers that it is justified in the circumstances, in which case the work is deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be a work that is constructed or placed, or proposed to be constructed or placed, in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule, as the case may be.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 4; 2009, c. 2, s. 321; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Assessment by Minister**

**5** 

- **(1)** An owner who proposes to construct, place, alter, repair, rebuild, remove or decommission a work — other than a designated work — in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule shall give notice of the proposal to the Minister.

**Notice**

- **(2)** The notice shall be made in the form and manner, and contain the information, that is specified by the Minister and shall be accompanied by the applicable fee.

**Application**

- **(3)** Subsection (1) also applies even if the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal or decommissioning of the work has begun or is completed before the Minister is notified under subsection (1).

**Assessment — factors**

- **(4)** In determining whether the work is likely to substantially interfere with navigation, the Minister shall, on receipt of the notice and the applicable fee, assess the proposal and in doing so shall take into account any relevant factor, including
	- **(a)** the characteristics of the navigable water in question;
	- **(b)** the safety of navigation;
	- **(c)** the current or anticipated navigation in that navigable water;
	- **(d)** the impact of the work on navigation in that navigable water, for example, as a result of its construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal, decommissioning, maintenance, operation or use; and
	- **(e)** the cumulative impact of the work on navigation in that navigable water.

**Related works**

- **(5)** If the Minister is of the opinion that two or more works are related, the Minister may consider them to be a single work.

**Minister’s powers**

- **(6)** In determining whether the work is likely to substantially interfere with navigation, the Minister may require from the owner
	- **(a)** any additional information that the Minister considers appropriate; and
	- **(b)** the deposit of any information specified by the Minister in the local land registry or land titles office or in any other place specified by the Minister and the publication of a notice containing any information specified by the Minister in the Canada Gazette and in any other publication specified by the Minister.

**Notice**

- **(7)** The notice referred to in paragraph (6)(b) shall invite any interested person to provide written comments to the Minister within 30 days after its publication.

**Assessment results**

- **(8)** On completion of the assessment of the proposal, the Minister shall determine whether or not the work is likely to substantially interfere with navigation and shall so inform the owner.

**Notice**

- **(9)** If the work does not conform to the description that the owner provided in the notice referred to in subsection (1), the owner shall so notify the Minister. The Minister may then require that a new notice be given under that subsection.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 5; 2009, c. 2, s. 321; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.




**5.1** [Repealed, 2012, c. 31, s. 318]




**Approval**

**6** 

- **(1)** An owner may construct, place, alter, repair, rebuild, remove or decommission a work in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule that the Minister has determined under section 5 is likely to substantially interfere with navigation only if the Minister has issued an approval for the work, which may be issued only if an application for the approval is submitted and the application is accompanied by the applicable fee.

**Application for approval**

- **(2)** The application for an approval shall be made in the form and manner, and contain the information, specified by the Minister.

**Refusal**

- **(3)** The Minister may refuse to issue an approval if he or she considers that the refusal is in the public interest, including by reason of the record of compliance of the owner under this Act.

**Terms and conditions**

- **(4)** The Minister may attach any term or condition that he or she considers appropriate to an approval including a requirement that the owner give security in the form of a letter of credit, guarantee, suretyship or indemnity bond or insurance or any other form that is satisfactory to the Minister.

**Compliance with requirements**

- **(5)** The owner shall comply with the approval and maintain, operate and use the work in accordance with the requirements under this Act.

**Contiguous area**

- **(6)** The Minister may, in an approval, designate an area contiguous with a work that is necessary for the safety of persons and navigation.

**Transfer**

- **(7)** An approval may only be transferred if written notice of the transfer is given to the Minister 30 days before the transfer takes place.

**Approval after construction or placement begins**

- **(8)** The Minister may, if he or she considers that it is justified in the circumstances, approve the construction or placement of the work after its construction or placement begins or is completed.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 6; 2009, c. 2, s. 322; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Amendment of approval**

**7** 

- **(1)** The Minister may amend an approval by amending or revoking any term or condition of the approval.

**Other amendment of approval**

- **(2)** The Minister may otherwise amend the approval, including by adding terms and conditions, only if he or she is satisfied that
	- **(a)** the work that is the subject of the approval interferes more with navigation at the time in question than it did when the approval was issued;
	- **(b)** the work causes or is likely to cause a serious and imminent danger to navigation; or
	- **(c)** the amendment of the approval is in the public interest.

**Suspension or cancellation**

- **(3)** The Minister may suspend or cancel an approval if he or she considers that
	- **(a)** the owner has not complied with the approval;
	- **(b)** the approval was obtained by a fraudulent or improper means or by the misrepresentation of a material fact;
	- **(c)** the owner has not paid a fine or penalty imposed under this Act;
	- **(d)** the owner has contravened this Act; or
	- **(e)** the suspension or cancellation is in the public interest, including by reason of the record of compliance of the owner under this Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 7; 2009, c. 2, s. 323; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Emergency**

**8** Even if the notice referred to in subsection 5(1) has not yet been given, the Minister may authorize the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal or decommissioning of a work — other than a designated work — in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule if the Minister considers that such an authorization is necessary as a result of an emergency that has resulted in or may result in a danger to life or property, social disruption or a breakdown in the flow of essential goods, services or resources and that is caused by a real or imminent
- **(a)** fire, flood, drought, storm, earthquake or other natural phenomenon;
- **(b)** disease in human beings, animals or plants; or
- **(c)** accident or pollution incident.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 8; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Permitted works**

**9** 

- **(1)** An owner may construct, place, alter, repair, rebuild, remove or decommission a work in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule that the Minister has determined under section 5 is not likely to substantially interfere with navigation only if the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal or decommissioning is in accordance with the requirements under this Act.

**Terms and conditions**

- **(2)** The Minister may impose any term or condition that he or she considers appropriate on the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal, decommissioning, maintenance, operation, safety or use of the work including the designation of an area contiguous with a work that is necessary for the safety of persons and navigation.

**Security**

- **(3)** In addition, the Minister may require, as a term or condition, that the owner give security in the form of a letter of credit, guarantee, suretyship or indemnity bond or insurance or any other form satisfactory to the Minister.

**Compliance with requirements**

- **(4)** The owner shall comply with the terms and conditions imposed under subsections (2) and (3) and maintain, operate and use the work in accordance with the requirements under this Act.

**Amendment of terms and conditions**

- **(5)** The Minister may amend or revoke any term or condition.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 9; 1993, c. 41, s. 8; 2009, c. 2, s. 324; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Designated works**

**10** 

- **(1)** An owner may construct, place, alter, repair, rebuild, remove or decommission a designated work in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule only if the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal or decommissioning is in accordance with the requirements under this Act.

**Maintenance, operation and use**

- **(2)** The owner shall maintain, operate and use the designated work in accordance with the requirements under this Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 10; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Application**

**11** 

- **(1)** This section applies to any work that is constructed, placed, altered, repaired, rebuilt, removed, decommissioned, maintained, operated or used contrary to the requirements under this Act.

**Minister’s powers**

- **(2)** The Minister may
	- **(a)** order the owner of a work to remove or alter the work;
	- **(b)** during the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal or decommissioning of a work, order any person to remove or alter the work or to do any other thing with respect to the work, including taking all measures necessary for the safety of navigation;
	- **(c)** if the owner or the person fails to comply with an order given under paragraph (a) or (b), cause any thing to be done with respect to the work, including the removal of the work, its destruction and the sale, donation or other disposal of the materials contained in the work; and
	- **(d)** order any person to refrain from proceeding with the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal or decommissioning of a work.

**Costs of removal or disposal**

- **(3)** The amount of the costs incurred by the Minister while acting under paragraph (2)(c), after deducting from that amount any sum that may be realized by sale or otherwise, is recoverable with costs in the name of Her Majesty from the owner.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 11; 2009, c. 2, s. 325; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.




**11.1** [Repealed, 2012, c. 31, s. 318]



**11.2** [Repealed, 2012, c. 31, s. 318]




**Obligation to notify Minister**

**12** 

- **(1)** An owner of a work in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule shall immediately notify the Minister if the work causes or is likely to cause a serious and imminent danger to navigation.

**Duty to take corrective measures**

- **(2)** The owner shall, as soon as feasible, take all reasonable measures consistent with public safety and with the safety of navigation to prevent any serious and imminent danger to navigation that is caused or likely to be caused by the work or to counteract, mitigate or remedy any adverse effects that result from that danger to navigation or might reasonably be expected to result from it.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 12; 2009, c. 2, s. 327; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Removal of works, etc.**

**13** 

- **(1)** The Minister may order the owner of a work constructed or placed in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable water that is listed in the schedule to repair, alter or remove it if he or she is satisfied that
	- **(a)** it interferes more with navigation at the time in question than it did when it was constructed or placed;
	- **(b)** it is causing or is likely to cause a serious and imminent danger to navigation; or
	- **(c)** its repair, alteration or removal is in the public interest.

**Works**

- **(2)** The Minister may, if he or she is satisfied that it is necessary in the circumstances, order the owner to do any other thing with respect to the work.

**Owner’s expense**

- **(3)** If the owner fails to comply with an order made under subsections (1) or (2), the Minister may cause the order to be carried out at the expense of the owner.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 13; 2009, c. 2, s. 328; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.




**13.1** [Repealed, 2012, c. 31, s. 318]




**[Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md)**

**14** For greater certainty, approvals issued under section 6, terms and conditions imposed under subsection 9(2) or (3) and orders given under paragraph 11(2)(a), (b) or (d) or subsection 13(1) or (2) are not statutory instruments as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md).
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 14; 2009, c. 2, s. 330; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.




**14.1** [Repealed, 2012, c. 31, s. 318]




## Obstructions



**Notice and indication of obstruction**

**15** 

- **(1)** The person in charge of an obstruction in a navigable water — other than a minor water — listed in the schedule shall
	- **(a)** immediately give notice of the existence of the obstruction to the Minister, in the form and manner, and including the information, specified by the Minister; and
	- **(b)** place and, as long as the obstruction is present, maintain, by day, a sufficient signal and, by night, a sufficient light, to indicate the position of the obstruction.

**Failure to signal and light rectifiable by Minister**

- **(2)** The Minister may cause the signal and light to be placed and maintained if the person in charge of the obstruction fails to do so.

**Removal of obstruction**

- **(3)** Unless otherwise ordered by the Minister, the person in charge of the obstruction shall immediately begin its removal and shall carry on the removal diligently to completion.

**Failure to remove obstruction rectifiable by Minister**

- **(4)** The Minister may cause the obstruction to be removed or destroyed if the person in charge of the obstruction fails to remove the obstruction.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 15; R.S., 1985, c. 1 (2nd Supp.), s. 213; 2009, c. 2, s. 331; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Minister’s powers**

**16** 

- **(1)** The Minister may order the person in charge of an obstruction or potential obstruction in a navigable water — other than a minor water — that is listed in the schedule to secure, remove or destroy it in the manner that the Minister considers appropriate if the situation has persisted for more than 24 hours.

**Property belonging to Her Majesty**

- **(2)** The Minister may order any person to secure, remove or destroy a wreck, vessel, part of a vessel or any thing that is cast ashore, stranded or left on any property belonging to Her Majesty in right of Canada and impedes, for more than 24 hours, the use of that property as may be required for the public purposes of Canada.

**Failure to comply with order**

- **(3)** If the person to whom an order is given under subsection (1) or (2) fails to comply with the order, the Minister may cause the order to be carried out.

**Not a statutory instrument**

- **(4)** For greater certainty, an order given under this section is not a statutory instrument as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md).
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 16; 2009, c. 2, s. 332; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Moving and sale**

**17** 

- **(1)** The Minister may cause an obstruction in a navigable water — other than in a minor water — that is listed in the schedule or the wreck, vessel, part of a vessel or thing referred to in subsection 16(2) to be moved to a place that the Minister considers appropriate and to be sold by auction or otherwise as the Minister considers appropriate. The Minister may apply the proceeds of the sale to make good the expenses incurred by the Minister in placing and maintaining any signal or light to indicate the position of the obstruction, wreck, vessel, part of a vessel or thing or in securing, removing, destroying or selling it.

**Surplus**

- **(2)** The Minister shall pay over all or any portion of the surplus of the proceeds of the sale to the person in charge of the obstruction sold or to any other person that is entitled to the proceeds.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 17; 2009, c. 2, s. 333; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Costs constituting debt**

**18** 

- **(1)** The amount of the costs incurred by the Minister while acting under subsection 15(2) or (4) or section 16 — whether or not a sale has been held under section 17 — constitutes a debt due to Her Majesty in right of Canada.

**Recovery by Her Majesty**

- **(2)** Such debts are recoverable from
	- **(a)** the person in charge of the obstruction at the time the obstruction was occasioned;
	- **(b)** any person through whose act or fault or through the act or fault of whose servant the obstruction was occasioned or continued; or
	- **(c)** the person to whom the order referred to in subsection 16(2) is given.

**Application of moneys recovered**

- **(3)** Any sum recovered under subsection (2) shall be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 18; 2009, c. 2, s. 334; 2012, c. 31, s. 318.





**Order to remove vessel left anchored**

**19** 

- **(1)** If a vessel has been left anchored, moored or adrift in any navigable water — other than in any minor water — that is listed in the schedule so that, in the Minister’s opinion, it obstructs or is likely to obstruct navigation, the Minister may order the registered owner or other owner, managing owner, master, person in charge of the vessel or subsequent purchaser to secure it or remove it to a place that the Minister considers appropriate.

**Failure to comply with order**

- **(2)** If a person to whom an order is given under subsection (1) fails to comply without delay with the order, the Minister may cause the vessel to be secured or removed to the place that the Minister considers appropriate, and the costs of securing or removing the vessel are recoverable from the person as a debt due to Her Majesty.

**Not a statutory instrument**

- **(3)** For greater certainty, an order given under this section is not a statutory instrument within the meaning of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md).
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 19; 2009, c. 2, s. 335; 2012, c. 31, s. 319.





**Abandoned vessel**

**20** 

- **(1)** If any vessel or thing is wrecked, sunk, partially sunk, stranded, grounded, including on the shore, or abandoned in a navigable water, the Minister may, for a purpose that he or she specifies and subject to any conditions that he or she considers appropriate, authorize any person to take possession of all or part of the vessel or thing, for the benefit of that person or the public.

**Notification**

- **(2)** The Minister must not authorize a person to take possession of all or part of the vessel or thing under subsection (1) unless the person has given 30 days’ notice, in the form and manner specified by the Minister, of their intention to do so
	- **(a)** to its owner; or
	- **(b)** to the public, if its owner is unknown or cannot be located.

**Consent not required**

- **(3)** A person that is authorized to take possession of a vessel under subsection (1) is not required to obtain the consent of its owner to register the vessel or obtain a pleasure craft licence for it under the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md).

**[Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md)**

- **(4)** For greater certainty, conditions imposed under subsection (1) are not statutory instruments as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md).
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 20; 2009, c. 2, s. 335; 2012, c. 31, s. 320; 2019, c. 28, s. 55.





## Deposit and Dewatering



**Throwing or depositing sawdust, etc., prohibited**

**21** No person shall throw or deposit or cause, suffer or permit to be thrown or deposited any sawdust, edgings, slabs, bark or like rubbish of any description whatever that is liable to interfere with navigation in any water, any part of which is navigable or that flows into any navigable water.
> R.S., c. N-19, s. 19.





**Throwing or depositing stone, etc., prohibited**

**22** No person shall throw or deposit or cause, suffer or permit to be thrown or deposited any stone, gravel, earth, cinders, ashes or other material or rubbish that is liable to sink to the bottom in any water, any part of which is navigable or flows into any navigable water, where there is not a minimum depth of 36 metres of water at all times, but nothing in this section shall be construed so as to permit the throwing or depositing of any substance in any part of a navigable water if it is prohibited by or under any other federal Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 22; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.





**Dewatering**

**23** No person shall dewater any navigable water.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 23; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.





**Exemption by order**

**24** The Governor in Council may, by order, exempt from any of sections 21 to 23, any rivers, streams or waters, in whole or in part, if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Governor in Council that the exemption would be in the public interest.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 24; 1998, c. 10, s. 189; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.





**Powers of certain persons**

**25** Sections 21, 22 and 26 do not affect the legal powers, rights or duties of harbour masters, port wardens, the person responsible for the management of the St. Lawrence Seaway or a port authority established under the [Canada Marine Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1998/c.%2010.md) in respect of materials that, under those sections, are not allowed to be deposited in navigable waters.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 25; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.





**Dumping places**

**26** The Minister may designate places in any navigable water that is not within the jurisdiction of any person referred to in section 25, where stone, gravel, earth, cinders, ashes or other material may be deposited even if the minimum depth of water at that place may be less than 36 metres, and the Minister may make rules respecting the deposit of the materials.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 26; R.S., 1985, c. 1 (2nd Supp.), s. 213; 2009, c. 2, s. 336; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.





## Agreements and Arrangements



**Agreements and arrangements**

**27** The Minister may, with respect to his or her responsibilities under this Act, enter into agreements or arrangements for carrying out the purposes of this Act and authorize any person or organization with whom an agreement or arrangement is entered into to exercise the powers or perform the duties under this Act that are specified in the agreement or arrangement.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 27; 2009, c. 2, s. 336; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.





**Agreement — cost recovery**

**27.1** 

- **(1)** The Minister may enter into an agreement with any person or organization respecting any matter for which a regulation made under paragraph 28(1)(b) could prescribe a fee.

**Regulations — exemption**

- **(2)** If both an agreement entered into under subsection (1) and a regulation made under paragraph 28(1)(b) relate to the same matter, the regulation does not apply to the person or organization that has entered into the agreement in respect of the matter for which payment is required under the agreement.

**Recovery**

- **(3)** When the Minister enters into an undertaking with respect to a matter for which payment of an amount is required from the other party under the terms of an agreement entered into under subsection (1), the undertaking is deemed, for the purposes of recovering that amount, not to be a duty of the Minister under this Act.

**Debt due to Her Majesty**

- **(4)** All amounts payable under an agreement entered into under subsection (1) and any interest payable on them constitute a debt due to Her Majesty in right of Canada.

**Spending**

- **(5)** The Minister may spend the amounts received under an agreement entered into under subsection (1) in the fiscal year in which they are received or in the next fiscal year.
> 2017, c. 20, s. 314.





## Regulations, Orders, Incorporation by Reference and Interim Orders



### Regulations and Orders



**Regulations by Governor in Council**

**28** 

- **(1)** The Governor in Council may, for the purposes of this Act, make regulations
	- **(a)** respecting time limits for issuing approvals or for refusing to do so;
	- **(b)** prescribing fees, or the method of calculating fees, to be paid with the request referred to in section 4, to be paid for the assessment referred to in section 5, to be paid with the application referred to in section 6 and to be paid for any other service, right or privilege provided under this Act and respecting the payment of those fees;
	- **(c)** respecting the issuing, amendment, suspension and cancellation of approvals under section 6;
	- **(d)** respecting the water levels and water flow necessary for navigation;
	- **(e)** respecting the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal, decommissioning, maintenance, operation, safety or use of works in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable waters — other than any minor waters — that are listed in the schedule;
	- **(f)** respecting the designation of areas contiguous with works that are necessary for the safety of persons and navigation;
	- **(g)** respecting notification requirements in the case of a change in owner of a work;
	- **(h)** excluding any thing from the definition obstruction in section 2;
	- **(i)** designating any provision of this Act, of the regulations or of an order as a provision whose contravention may be proceeded with as a violation in accordance with sections 39.1 to 39.26;
	- **(j)** establishing a penalty, or a range of penalties, in respect of each violation;
	- **(k)** establishing criteria to be considered in determining the amount of the penalty if a range of penalties is established;
	- **(l)** classifying each violation as a minor violation, a serious violation or a very serious violation;
	- **(m)** respecting the circumstances under which, the criteria by which and the manner in which the amount of a penalty may be increased or reduced in whole or in part;
	- **(n)** providing for a lesser amount that may be paid as complete satisfaction of a penalty if it is paid within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner and providing, among other things, the circumstances in which the lesser amount may be set out in a notice of violation;
	- **(o)** prescribing anything that is to be prescribed under this Act; and
	- **(p)** for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

**Minister’s power**

- **(2)** The Minister may make an order
	- **(a)** designating any works as minor works;
	- **(b)** designating, as minor waters, any of the navigable waters, in whole or in part, that are listed in the schedule;
	- **(c)** respecting the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal, decommissioning, maintenance, operation, safety or use of works in, on, over, under, through or across any navigable waters — other than any minor waters — that are listed in the schedule; and
	- **(d)** respecting the construction, placement, alteration, repair, rebuilding, removal, decommissioning, maintenance, operation, safety or use of works in, on, over, under, through or across any minor waters.

**Classes**

- **(3)** A regulation or order made under this section may establish classes and distinguish among those classes.

**Conflict**

- **(4)** If there is a conflict between a regulation made under paragraph (1)(e) and an order made under paragraph (2)(c), the regulation prevails.

**Exemption from [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md)**

- **(5)** An order made under subsection (2) is not a statutory instrument as defined in subsection 2(1) of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md). However, it shall be published in the Canada Gazette within 23 days after the day on which it is made.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 28; R.S., 1985, c. 1 (2nd Supp.), s. 213; 2009, c. 2, s. 336; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.





**Addition to schedule**

**29** 

- **(1)** The Minister may, by order, amend the schedule by adding to it a reference to a navigable water after considering the following factors:
	- **(a)** whether the navigable water is on a nautical chart issued officially by or on the authority of the Canadian Hydrographic Service;
	- **(b)** the physical characteristics of the navigable water;
	- **(c)** whether the navigable water connects to other navigable waters and, if so, how it connects to them;
	- **(d)** the safety of navigation in the navigable water;
	- **(e)** the past, current or anticipated navigation in the navigable water;
	- **(f)** whether there are Indigenous peoples of Canada who navigate, have navigated or will likely navigate the navigable water in order to exercise rights recognized and affirmed by section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982; and
	- **(g)** the cumulative impact of works on navigation in the navigable water.

**Request — addition**

- **(2)** Any person may request that the Minister add a reference to a navigable water to the schedule by submitting an application in the form and manner, and containing the information, specified by the Minister.

**Other amendment of schedule**

- **(3)** The Minister may, by order, amend the schedule by amending a reference to a navigable water and the Governor in Council may, by regulation, amend the schedule by deleting a reference to a navigable water.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 29; 2009, c. 2, s. 337; 2012, c. 31, s. 321; 2019, c. 28, s. 62.





### Incorporation by Reference



**Incorporation by reference**

**30** 

- **(1)** A regulation or order made under this Act may incorporate by reference any document, regardless of its source, either as it exists on a particular date or as it is amended from time to time.

**Accessibility**

- **(2)** The Minister shall ensure that any document that is incorporated by reference in the regulation or order is accessible.

**Defence**

- **(3)** A person is not liable to be found guilty of an offence for any contravention in respect of which a document that is incorporated by reference in the regulation or order is relevant unless, at the time of the alleged contravention, the document was accessible as required by subsection (2) or it was otherwise accessible to the person.

**No registration or publication**

- **(4)** For greater certainty, a document that is incorporated by reference in the regulation or order is not required to be transmitted for registration or published in the Canada Gazette by reason only that it is incorporated by reference.
> R.S., 1985, c. N-22, s. 30; 2009, c. 2, s. 338; 2012, c. 31, s. 321.




**31** [Repealed, 2009, c. 2, s. 339]




### Interim Orders



**Interim orders**

**32** 

- **(1)** The Minister may make an interim order that contains any provision that may be contained in a regulation made under this Act if the Minister believes that immediate action is required to deal with a significant risk, direct or indirect, to safety or security.

**Cessation of effect**

- **(2)** An interim order has effect from the time that it is made but ceases to have effect on the earliest of
	- **(a)** 14 days after it is made, unless it is approved by the Governor in Council,
	- **(b)** the day on which it is repealed,
	- **(c)** the day on which a regulation made under this Act, that has the same effect as the interim order, comes into force, and
	- **(d)** one year after the interim order is made or any shorter period that may be specified in the interim order.

**Contravention of unpublished order**

- **(3)** No person shall be convicted of an offence consisting of a contravention of an interim order that, at the time of the alleged contravention, had not been published in the Canada Gazette unless it is proved that, at the time of the alleged contravention, the person had been notified of the interim order or reasonable steps had been taken to bring the purport of the interim order to the notice of those persons likely to be affected by it.

**Exemption from [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md)**

- **(4)** An interim order
	- **(a)** is exempt from the application of sections 3, 5 and 11 of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md); and
	- **(b)** shall be published in the Canada Gazette within 23 days after it is made.

**Deeming**

- **(5)** For the purpose of any provision of this Act other than this section, any reference to regulations made under this Act is deemed to include interim orders, and any reference to a regulation made under a specified provision of this Act is deemed to include a reference to the portion of an interim order containing any provision that may be contained in a regulation made under the specified provision.

**Tabling of order**

- **(6)** A copy of each interim order must be tabled in each House of Parliament within 15 days after it is made.

**House not sitting**

- **(7)** In order to comply with subsection (6), the interim order may be sent to the Clerk of the House if the House is not sitting.
> 2004, c. 15, s. 96; 2012, c. 31, s. 322.





## Administration and Enforcement



### Designation



**Designation**

**33** The Minister may designate persons or classes of persons for the purposes of the administration and enforcement of this Act.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340; 2012, c. 31, s. 323.





### Powers



**Authority to enter**

**34** 

- **(1)** A designated person may, for a purpose related to verifying compliance with this Act, enter a place in which they have reasonable grounds to believe that any of the following items are located:
	- **(a)** a work or anything related to a work; and
	- **(b)** an obstruction or potential obstruction.

**Certification**

- **(2)** On entering a place, the designated person shall, on request, produce to the person in charge of the place a certification in the form established by the Minister attesting to the designation.

**Powers**

- **(3)** The designated person may, for the purposes referred to in subsection (1),
	- **(a)** examine anything that is found in the place;
	- **(b)** remove any document or other thing from the place for examination or, in the case of a document, copying;
	- **(c)** direct any person to put into operation or cease operating any work, vessel or other conveyance, machinery or equipment in the place;
	- **(d)** prohibit or limit access to the place for as long as specified;
	- **(e)** take photographs and make video recordings and sketches;
	- **(f)** use or cause to be used any computer system or data processing system at the place to examine any data contained in, or available to, the system;
	- **(g)** reproduce any record, or cause it to be reproduced from the data, in the form of a printout or other intelligible output and remove the printout or other output for examination or copying; and
	- **(h)** use or cause to be used any copying equipment at the place to make copies of any books, records, electronic data or other documents.

**Entry — private property**

- **(4)** The designated person, in carrying out their functions under this section, and a person accompanying them may enter on and pass through or over private property without being liable for doing so.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340; 2012, c. 31, s. 324.





**Duty to assist**

**35** The owner or person who is in charge of a place that is entered under subsection 34(1) and every person who is in the place shall
- **(a)** give a designated person who is carrying out their functions under section 34 all reasonable assistance; and
- **(b)** provide them with any information that they may reasonably require.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340; 2012, c. 31, s. 325(F).





**Warrant for dwelling-house**

**36** 

- **(1)** If any place referred to in subsection 34(1) is a dwelling-house, the designated person may not enter it without the consent of the occupant except under the authority of a warrant issued under subsection (2).

**Authority to issue warrant**

- **(2)** On *ex parte* application, a justice of the peace may issue a warrant authorizing the person who is named in it to enter a dwelling-house, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the warrant, if the justice is satisfied by information on oath that
	- **(a)** the dwelling-house is a place referred to in subsection 34(1);
	- **(b)** entry to the dwelling-house is necessary for a purpose related to verifying compliance with this Act; and
	- **(c)** entry to the dwelling-house was refused by the occupant or there are reasonable grounds to believe that entry will be refused or consent to entry cannot be obtained from the occupant.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340; 2012, c. 31, s. 326.





### Prohibitions



**False statements or information**

**37** 

- **(1)** No person shall knowingly, orally or in writing, make a false or misleading statement or provide false or misleading information, in connection with any matter under this Act, to a designated person who is carrying out their functions under section 34.

**Obstruction**

- **(2)** No person shall knowingly obstruct or hinder a designated person who is carrying out their functions under section 34.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340.





### Injunction



**Injunction**

**38** 

- **(1)** If, on the application of the Minister, it appears to a court of competent jurisdiction that a person has done, is about to do or is likely to do any act constituting or directed toward the commission of an offence or a violation under this Act, the court may issue an injunction ordering a person named in the application
	- **(a)** to refrain from doing an act that, in the opinion of the court, may constitute or be directed toward the commission of the offence or the violation; or
	- **(b)** to do an act that, in the opinion of the court, may prevent the commission of the offence or the violation.

**Notice**

- **(2)** No injunction may be issued under subsection (1) unless 48 hours’ notice is served on the party or parties named in the application or the urgency of the situation is such that service would not be in the public interest.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340; 2012, c. 31, s. 327.





### Immunity



**Not personally liable**

**39** 

- **(1)** Servants of the Crown, as those terms are defined in section 2 of the [Crown Liability and Proceedings Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-50.md), are not personally liable for anything they do or omit to do in good faith under this Act.

**Crown not relieved**

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not, by reason of section 10 of the [Crown Liability and Proceedings Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-50.md), relieve the Crown of liability for a tort or extracontractual civil liability to which the Crown would otherwise be subject.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340.





### Administrative Monetary Penalties



#### Violations



**Commission of violation**

**39.1** 

- **(1)** Every person who contravenes a provision designated under paragraph 28(1)(i) commits a violation and is liable to a penalty established in accordance with the regulations.

**Purpose of penalty**

- **(2)** The purpose of a penalty is to promote compliance with this Act and not to punish.

**Maximum penalty**

- **(3)** The maximum penalty for a violation is $5,000, in the case of an individual, and $40,000 in any other case.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





#### Proceedings



**Notice of violation**

**39.11** 

- **(1)** A designated person may issue a notice of violation and cause it to be provided to a person if the designated person has reasonable grounds to believe that the person has committed a violation.

**Contents of notice**

- **(2)** The notice of violation shall
	- **(a)** name the person believed to have committed the violation;
	- **(b)** identify the acts or omissions that constitute the alleged violation;
	- **(c)** set out the penalty for the violation that the person is liable to pay;
	- **(d)** set out the particulars concerning the time and manner of payment; and
	- **(e)** set out a lesser amount that may be paid as complete satisfaction of the penalty if it is paid within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner that are specified in the notice.

**Summary of rights**

- **(3)** A notice of violation shall summarize, in plain language, the rights and obligations under this section and sections 39.12 to 39.23 of the person to whom it is provided, including the right to request a review of the acts or omissions that constitute the alleged violation or of the amount of the penalty and the procedure for requesting the review.

**Short-form descriptions**

- **(4)** The Minister may establish a short-form description of each violation to be used in notices of violation.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





#### Penalties



**Effect of payment**

**39.12** 

- **(1)** If the person who is named in a notice of violation pays, within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner that are specified in the notice, the amount of the penalty — or, if applicable, the lesser amount that may be paid as complete satisfaction of the penalty — set out in the notice,
	- **(a)** the person is deemed to have committed the violation to which the amount paid relates;
	- **(b)** the Minister shall accept the amount paid as complete satisfaction of the penalty; and
	- **(c)** the proceedings commenced in respect of the violation under section 39.11 are ended.

**Alternatives to payment**

- **(2)** Instead of paying the penalty or, if applicable, the lesser amount that may be paid as complete satisfaction of the penalty, the person who is named in the notice may, within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner that are specified in the notice, request a review by the Tribunal of the acts or omissions that constitute the alleged violation or of the amount of the penalty, as the case may be.

**Deeming**

- **(3)** If the person who is named in the notice does not pay the penalty or, if applicable, the lesser amount that may be paid as complete satisfaction of the penalty, within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner and does not exercise the right referred to in subsection (2) within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner, the person is deemed to have committed the violation identified in the notice.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





#### Review by Tribunal



**Review — violation**

**39.13** 

- **(1)** After completing a review requested under subsection 39.12(2) with respect to the acts or omissions that constitute the alleged violation identified in the notice of violation, the Tribunal shall determine whether the person who is named in the notice committed the violation and, if the Tribunal determines that the person did so but considers that the amount of the penalty for the violation was not established in accordance with the regulations, the Tribunal shall correct that amount and cause the person to be provided with a notice of the Tribunal’s decision.

**Review — penalty**

- **(2)** After completing a review requested under subsection 39.12(2) with respect to the amount of the penalty set out in the notice of violation, the Tribunal shall determine whether the amount of the penalty was established in accordance with the regulations and, if the Tribunal determines that it was not, the Tribunal shall correct that amount and cause the person to be provided with a notice of the Tribunal’s decision.

**Payment**

- **(3)** The person who is provided with a notice of the Tribunal’s decision is liable to pay the amount of the penalty that is set out in it within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner that are specified in the notice.

**Effect of payment**

- **(4)** If the person pays the amount of the penalty that is set out in the notice of the Tribunal’s decision within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner that are specified in the notice,
	- **(a)** the Tribunal shall accept the amount as complete satisfaction of the penalty; and
	- **(b)** the proceedings commenced in respect of the violation under section 39.11 are ended.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





#### Recovery of Debts



**Debts to Her Majesty**

**39.14** 

- **(1)** The following amounts are debts due to Her Majesty in right of Canada that may be recovered in the Federal Court:
	- **(a)** the amount of a penalty set out in a notice of violation, beginning on the day on which it is required to be paid in accordance with the notice, unless a request is made to have the Tribunal review the acts or omissions that constitute the violation or the amount of the penalty, as the case may be;
	- **(b)** the amount of a penalty set out in the notice of the Tribunal’s decision made under subsection 39.13(1) or (2), beginning on the day specified in the notice; and
	- **(c)** the amount of any reasonable expenses incurred in attempting to recover an amount referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).

**Limitation period or prescription**

- **(2)** Proceedings to recover such a debt may be commenced no later than five years after the debt becomes payable.

**Debt final**

- **(3)** The debt is final and not subject to review or to be restrained, prohibited, removed, set aside or otherwise dealt with except to the extent and in the manner provided by sections 39.12 and 39.13.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Certificate of default**

**39.15** 

- **(1)** The Minister may issue a certificate certifying the unpaid amount of any debt referred to in subsection 39.14(1).

**Effect of registration**

- **(2)** Registration of the certificate in the Federal Court has the same effect as a judgment of that court for a debt of the amount specified in the certificate and all related registration costs.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





#### Rules of Law About Violations



**Violations not offences**

**39.16** For greater certainty, a violation is not an offence and, accordingly, section 126 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) does not apply.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Due diligence defence**

**39.17** 

- **(1)** A person shall not be found to be liable for a violation if they establish that they exercised due diligence to prevent the commission of the violation.

**Common law principles**

- **(2)** Every rule and principle of the common law that renders any circumstance a justification or an excuse in relation to a charge for an offence under this Act applies in respect of a violation to the extent that it is not inconsistent with this Act.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Burden of proof**

**39.18** If the Tribunal is to determine whether a person who is named in a notice of violation committed any violation that is identified in it, the Tribunal shall do so on a balance of probabilities.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Offences by corporate officers, etc.**

**39.19** If a person other than an individual commits a violation under this Act, any of the person’s officers, directors and agents or mandataries who directed, authorized, assented to or acquiesced or participated in the commission of the violation is a party to and liable for the violation, whether or not the person who actually committed it is proceeded against in accordance with this Act.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Vicarious liability — acts of employees, agents and mandataries**

**39.2** A person is liable for a violation that is committed by that person’s employee or agent or mandatary who is acting in the course of the employee’s employment or within the scope of the agent or mandatary’s authority, whether or not the employee or agent or mandatary who actually committed the violation is identified or proceeded against in accordance with this Act.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Continuing violation**

**39.21** A violation that is continued on more than one day constitutes a separate violation in respect of each day during which it is continued.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





#### Other Provisions



**Evidence**

**39.22** In any proceeding for a violation, a notice of violation purporting to be issued under this Act is admissible in evidence without proof of the signature or official character of the person appearing to have signed it.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Limitation period or prescription**

**39.23** Proceedings in respect of a violation may be commenced no later than six months after the day on which a designated person becomes aware of the acts or omissions that constitute the alleged violation.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Certification by Minister**

**39.24** A document appearing to have been issued by the Minister and certifying the day on which the acts or omissions that constitute the alleged violation became known to a designated person is admissible in evidence without proof of the signature or official character of the person appearing to have signed it and, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, is proof that the designated person became aware of the acts or omissions on that day.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**Information may be made public**

**39.25** The Minister may make public the name and business address of a person who is deemed to have committed a violation or who was determined to have committed a violation, the acts or omissions and provisions at issue, and the amount payable as a result, if any.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





**How act or omission may be proceeded with**

**39.26** If an act or omission may be proceeded with either as a violation or as an offence, proceeding in one manner precludes proceeding in the other.
> 2012, c. 31, s. 328.





### Offences and Punishment



**Offence**

**40** 

- **(1)** Every person is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term of not more than six months or to a fine of not more than $50,000, or to both, if the person
	- **(a)** contravenes section 3;
	- **(b)** does not give the notice required under subsection 5(1) or (9) or 12(1) or paragraph 15(1)(a);
	- **(c)** contravenes subsection 6(5), 9(4), 10(2) or 15(3), section 21, 22, 23 or 35 or subsection 37(1) or (2);
	- **(d)** contravenes an order given under paragraph 11(2)(a), (b) or (d) or subsection 13(1) or (2), 16(1) or (2) or 19(1);
	- **(e)** does not take the measures required under subsection 12(2) or paragraph 15(1)(b);
	- **(f)** contravenes a regulation or order made under section 28; or
	- **(g)** contravenes an interim order made under section 32.

**Vessel liable for fine**

- **(2)** If any materials referred to in section 22 are thrown from or deposited by a vessel and a conviction is obtained for that activity, the vessel is liable for any fine that is imposed and may be detained by any port warden or the chief officer of customs at any port until the fine is paid.

**Continuing offence**

- **(3)** If the offence under subsection (1) is committed or continued on more than one day, the person who commits it is liable to be convicted for a separate offence for each day on which it is committed or continued.

**Officers, etc., of corporations**

- **(4)** If a corporation commits an offence under this Act, any officer, director or agent or mandatary of the corporation who directed, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission of the offence is a party to, and guilty of, the offence and liable on conviction to the punishment provided for the offence, whether or not the corporation has been prosecuted or convicted.

**Duty to ensure compliance**

- **(5)** Every director and officer of a corporation shall take all reasonable care to ensure that the corporation complies with this Act.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340; 2012, c. 31, s. 329.





**Review of Act**

**41** 

- **(1)** A review of the provisions and the operation of this Act must be completed by the Minister before the end of the fifth year after the day on which this section comes into force.

**Tabling of report**

- **(2)** The Minister shall cause a report of the review to be laid before each House of Parliament on any of the first 15 days on which that House is sitting after the report has been completed.
> 2009, c. 2, s. 340.





### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 3, subsections 4(1) and (3), 5(1) and 6(1), section 8, subsections 9(1), 10(1), 12(1), 13(1), 15(1), 16(1), 17(1) and 19(1), paragraphs 28(1)(e) and (2)(b) and (c) and subsections 29(1) to (3))**
## Navigable Waters
#### PART 1
<table>
<h4>Oceans and Lakes</h4>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Approximate Location</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Arctic Ocean</td>
<td>80°00′00″ N, 140°00′00″ W</td>
<td>All waters from the outer limit of the territorial sea up to the higher high water mean tide water level and includes all connecting waters up to an elevation intersecting with that level</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Pacific Ocean</td>
<td>50°00′00″ N, 135°00′00″ W</td>
<td>All waters from the outer limit of the territorial sea up to the higher high water mean tide water level and includes all connecting waters up to an elevation intersecting with that level</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Powell Lake</td>
<td>50°04′59″ N, 124°25′00″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Williston Lake</td>
<td>55°57′55″ N, 123°53′37″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Pitt Lake</td>
<td>49°24′53″ N, 122°33′05″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Harrison Lake</td>
<td>49°26′05″ N, 121°48′35″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Great Bear Lake</td>
<td>65°50′00″ N, 120°45′06″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Kamloops Lake</td>
<td>50°43′59″ N, 120°37′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Okanagan Lake</td>
<td>49°45′00″ N, 119°43′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Little Shuswap Lake</td>
<td>50°50′59″ N, 119°37′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Shuswap Lake</td>
<td>50°55′59″ N, 119°16′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Mara Lake</td>
<td>50°46′59″ N, 118°59′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Lake Revelstoke</td>
<td>51°25′09″ N, 118°27′46″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Kinbasket Lake</td>
<td>52°07′59″ N, 118°27′00″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>Lower Arrow Lake</td>
<td>49°45′00″ N, 118°07′00″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Upper Arrow Lake</td>
<td>50°34′59″ N, 117°56′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Kootenay Lake</td>
<td>49°40′00″ N, 116°54′00″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Great Slave Lake</td>
<td>61°30′00″ N, 114°00′04″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Lake Athabasca</td>
<td>59°00′00″ N, 110°30′00″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>Lake Winnipegosis</td>
<td>52°28′59″ N, 99°58′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>21</td>
<td>Lake Manitoba</td>
<td>50°25′42″ N, 98°16′30″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>22</td>
<td>Lake Winnipeg</td>
<td>52°07′54″ N, 97°15′39″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>23</td>
<td>Baker Lake</td>
<td>64°10′00″ N, 95°29′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>24</td>
<td>Lake of the Woods</td>
<td>49°01′39″ N, 94°36′44″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>25</td>
<td>Eagle Lake</td>
<td>49°40′53″ N, 93°04′11″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>26</td>
<td>Rainy Lake</td>
<td>48°38′12″ N, 93°01′52″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>27</td>
<td>Nipigon Lake</td>
<td>49°50′00″ N, 88°29′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>28</td>
<td>Lake Superior</td>
<td>48°19′56″ N, 87°05′54″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>29</td>
<td>Lake St. Clair</td>
<td>42°24′01″ N, 82°37′27″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>30</td>
<td>Lake Huron</td>
<td>44°38′26″ N, 81°46′04″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>31</td>
<td>Lake Erie</td>
<td>42°27′14″ N, 81°07′16″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>32</td>
<td>Nipissing Lake</td>
<td>46°16′02″ N, 79°47′13″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>33</td>
<td>Joseph Lake</td>
<td>45°11′30″ N, 79°44′45″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>34</td>
<td>Little Lake</td>
<td>44°49′06″ N, 79°42′47″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>35</td>
<td>Gloucester Pool</td>
<td>44°50′41″ N, 79°42′35″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>36</td>
<td>Cain Lake</td>
<td>44°54′38″ N, 79°37′22″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>37</td>
<td>Rosseau Lake</td>
<td>45°10′30″ N, 79°36′09″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>38</td>
<td>Muskoka Lake</td>
<td>45°03′12″ N, 79°28′28″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>39</td>
<td>Timiskaming Lake</td>
<td>47°07′52″ N, 79°26′45″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>40</td>
<td>Sparrow Lake</td>
<td>44°49′06″ N, 79°23′46″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>Lake Couchiching</td>
<td>44°39′51″ N, 79°22′34″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>42</td>
<td>Lake Simcoe</td>
<td>44°25′24″ N, 79°22′16″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>43</td>
<td>Vernon Lake</td>
<td>45°19′46″ N, 79°17′49″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>44</td>
<td>Mary Lake</td>
<td>45°14′39″ N, 79°15′30″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>45</td>
<td>Fairy Lake</td>
<td>45°19′43″ N, 79°10′50″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>46</td>
<td>Peninsula Lake</td>
<td>45°20′20″ N, 79°06′07″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>47</td>
<td>Lake of Bays</td>
<td>45°14′04″ N, 79°03′02″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>48</td>
<td>Canal Lake</td>
<td>44°33′57″ N, 79°02′29″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>49</td>
<td>Mitchell Lake</td>
<td>44°34′25″ N, 78°57′01″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>50</td>
<td>Lake Scugog</td>
<td>44°11′00″ N, 78°51′26″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>51</td>
<td>Balsam Lake</td>
<td>44°34′49″ N, 78°50′29″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>52</td>
<td>Cameron Lake</td>
<td>44°33′07″ N, 78°45′39″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>53</td>
<td>Sturgeon Lake</td>
<td>44°28′27″ N, 78°41′19″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>54</td>
<td>Pigeon Lake</td>
<td>44°29′25″ N, 78°29′50″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>55</td>
<td>Little Bald Lake</td>
<td>44°34′28″ N, 78°24′54″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>56</td>
<td>Buckhorn Lake</td>
<td>44°29′04″ N, 78°23′44″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>57</td>
<td>Chemong Lake</td>
<td>44°23′18″ N, 78°23′33″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>58</td>
<td>Big Bald Lake</td>
<td>44°34′35″ N, 78°23′10″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>59</td>
<td>Upper Chemong Lake</td>
<td>44°28′52″ N, 78°20′49″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>60</td>
<td>Lower Buckhorn Lake</td>
<td>44°33′03″ N, 78°16′14″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61</td>
<td>Katchewanooka Lake</td>
<td>44°27′15″ N, 78°15′49″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>62</td>
<td>Lovesick Lake</td>
<td>44°33′25″ N, 78°14′00″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>63</td>
<td>Clear Lake</td>
<td>44°30′55″ N, 78°11′38″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>64</td>
<td>Fairy Lake</td>
<td>44°32′54″ N, 78°10′14″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>65</td>
<td>Rice Lake</td>
<td>44°11′17″ N, 78°09′44″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>66</td>
<td>Stony Lake</td>
<td>44°33′45″ N, 78°06′31″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>67</td>
<td>Big Duck Pond</td>
<td>44°33′25″ N, 78°05′42″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>68</td>
<td>Duck Pond</td>
<td>44°33′40″ N, 78°05′23″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>69</td>
<td>Lake Ontario</td>
<td>43°47′43″ N, 77°54′19″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>70</td>
<td>Seymour Lake</td>
<td>44°23′05″ N, 77°48′35″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>71</td>
<td>Colonel By Lake</td>
<td>44°18′29″ N, 76°25′44″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>72</td>
<td>Loon Lake</td>
<td>44°36′41″ N, 76°23′16″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>73</td>
<td>Pollywog Lake</td>
<td>44°36′39″ N, 76°22′10″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>74</td>
<td>Mosquito Lake</td>
<td>44°36′06″ N, 76°21′57″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>75</td>
<td>Benson Lake</td>
<td>44°35′21″ N, 76°21′11″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>76</td>
<td>Dog Lake</td>
<td>44°26′07″ N, 76°20′41″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>77</td>
<td>Upper Rideau Lake</td>
<td>44°40′57″ N, 76°20′11″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>78</td>
<td>Opinicon Lake</td>
<td>44°33′32″ N, 76°19′41″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>79</td>
<td>Cranesnest Lake</td>
<td>44°27′44″ N, 76°19′39″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>80</td>
<td>Indian Lake</td>
<td>44°35′31″ N, 76°19′37″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>81</td>
<td>Newboro Lake</td>
<td>44°37′53″ N, 76°19′03″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>82</td>
<td>Clear Lake</td>
<td>44°36′19″ N, 76°18′43″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>83</td>
<td>Cranberry Lake</td>
<td>44°26′21″ N, 76°18′24″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>84</td>
<td>Sand Lake</td>
<td>44°34′06″ N, 76°15′41″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>85</td>
<td>Little Cranberry Lake</td>
<td>44°28′37″ N, 76°15′35″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>86</td>
<td>Whitefish Lake</td>
<td>44°30′56″ N, 76°14′22″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>87</td>
<td>Lost Lake</td>
<td>44°44′08″ N, 76°13′36″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>88</td>
<td>Long Island Lake</td>
<td>44°44′22″ N, 76°13′20″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>89</td>
<td>Adams Lake</td>
<td>44°48′42″ N, 76°12′46″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>90</td>
<td>Big Rideau Lake</td>
<td>44°46′14″ N, 76°12′44″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>91</td>
<td>Little Lake</td>
<td>44°43′39″ N, 76°10′36″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>92</td>
<td>Lower Rideau Lake</td>
<td>44°51′58″ N, 76°07′07″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>93</td>
<td>Dows Lake</td>
<td>45°23′40″ N, 75°42′05″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>94</td>
<td>Lac des Deux Montagnes</td>
<td>45°26′59″ N, 73°59′59″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>95</td>
<td>Lac Memphrémagog</td>
<td>45°08′34″ N, 72°16′08″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>96</td>
<td>Lac Saint-Jean</td>
<td>48°35′40″ N, 72°01′48″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>97</td>
<td>Atlantic Ocean</td>
<td>43°00′00″ N, 63°00′00″ W</td>
<td>All waters from the outer limit of the territorial sea up to the higher high water mean tide water level and includes all connecting waters up to an elevation intersecting with that level</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>98</td>
<td>Bras d’Or Lake</td>
<td>45°51′36″ N, 60°46′44″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>99</td>
<td>Great Bras d’Or Lake</td>
<td>46°03′24″ N, 60°42′03″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>100</td>
<td>Lake Melville</td>
<td>53°40′55″ N, 59°44′55″ W</td>
<td>The lake’s water boundary includes the mouths of all connecting waterways</td>
</tr>
</table>

#### PART 2
<table>
<h4>Rivers and Riverines</h4>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
<th>Column 4</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Approximate Downstream Point</th>
<th>Approximate Upstream Point</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Yukon River</td>
<td>64°40′57″ N, 141°00′00″ W</td>
<td>60°41′57″ N, 135°02′34″ W</td>
<td>From the rapids near the dam in Whitehorse to the Canada–U.S. border</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Mackenzie River</td>
<td>69°20′59″ N, 133°54′10″ W</td>
<td>61°03′31″ N, 116°33′22″ W</td>
<td>From Great Slave Lake to the Arctic Ocean</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Skeena River</td>
<td>54°01′00″ N, 130°06′12″ W</td>
<td>55°41′53″ N, 127°41′40″ W</td>
<td>From the confluence with the Babine River to the Pacific Ocean</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Fraser River</td>
<td>49°06′10″ N, 123°17′59″ W</td>
<td>53°01′50″ N, 119°12′17″ W</td>
<td>From the Overland Falls to the Pacific Ocean</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Pitt River</td>
<td>49°13′43″ N, 122°46′03″ W</td>
<td>49°21′06″ N, 122°36′35″ W</td>
<td>From Pitt Lake to the Fraser River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Harrison River</td>
<td>49°13′51″ N, 121°56′43″ W</td>
<td>49°18′42″ N, 121°48′12″ W</td>
<td>From Harrison Lake to the Fraser River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Thompson River</td>
<td>50°14′06″ N, 121°35′03″ W</td>
<td>50°40′50″ N, 120°20′18″ W</td>
<td>From South Thompson River to the Fraser River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>South Thompson River</td>
<td>50°40′50″ N, 120°20′18″ W</td>
<td>50°49′38″ N, 119°42′01″ W</td>
<td>From Little Shuswap Lake to the Thompson River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Kootenay River</td>
<td>49°18′56″ N, 117°39′08″ W</td>
<td>49°37′32″ N, 116°56′36″ W</td>
<td>From Kootenay Lake to the Columbia River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Columbia River</td>
<td>49°00′00″ N, 117°37′55″ W</td>
<td>52°04′30″ N, 118°33′58″ W</td>
<td>From Kinbasket Lake to the Canada–U.S. border</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Bow River</td>
<td>49°56′05″ N, 111°41′19″ W</td>
<td>51°13′08″ N, 114°42′28″ W</td>
<td>From Ghost Lake to the South Saskatchewan River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Peace River</td>
<td>59°00′01″ N, 111°24′47″ W</td>
<td>56°00′48″ N, 122°12′18″ W</td>
<td>From Williston Lake to the Slave River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Athabasca River</td>
<td>58°40′10″ N, 110°50′15″ W</td>
<td>52°44′09″ N, 117°57′17″ W</td>
<td>From the confluence with Whirlpool River to Lake Athabasca</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>North Saskatchewan River</td>
<td>53°14′07″ N, 105°04′58″ W</td>
<td>52°22′35″ N, 115°24′05″ W</td>
<td>From the confluence with Ram River to the confluence with the South Saskatchewan River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>South Saskatchewan River</td>
<td>53°14′07″ N, 105°04′58″ W</td>
<td>49°56′05″ N, 111°41′19″ W</td>
<td>From the confluence of the Bow River and Oldman River to the confluence with the North Saskatchewan River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Assiniboine River</td>
<td>49°53′08″ N, 97°07′41″ W</td>
<td>50°58′35″ N, 101°24′26″ W</td>
<td>From the Shellmouth Dam to the Red River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Red River</td>
<td>50°23′12″ N, 96°47′58″ W</td>
<td>49°00′02″ N, 97°13′43″ W</td>
<td>From the Canada–U.S. Border to Lake Winnipeg</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Winnipeg River</td>
<td>50°37′54″ N, 96°19′13″ W</td>
<td>49°45′59″ N, 94°30′39″ W</td>
<td>From Lake of the Woods to Lake Winnipeg</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Rainy River</td>
<td>48°50′20″ N, 94°41′08″ W</td>
<td>48°36′54″ N, 93°21′11″ W</td>
<td>From Rainy Lake to Lake of the Woods</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>St. Marys River</td>
<td>46°03′34″ N, 83°56′44″ W</td>
<td>46°31′13″ N, 84°37′08″ W</td>
<td>From Lake Superior to Lake Huron</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>21</td>
<td>Detroit River</td>
<td>42°04′54″ N, 83°07′32″ W</td>
<td>42°21′06″ N, 82°55′25″ W</td>
<td>From Lake St. Clair to Lake Erie</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>22</td>
<td>St. Clair River</td>
<td>42°36′53″ N, 82°30′59″ W</td>
<td>43°00′10″ N, 82°25′13″ W</td>
<td>From Lake Huron to Lake St. Clair</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>23</td>
<td>French River</td>
<td>45°56′28″ N, 80°54′05″ W</td>
<td>46°12′31″ N , 79°49′03″ W</td>
<td>From Lake Nipissing to Lake Huron</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>24</td>
<td>Moose River</td>
<td>51°23′15″ N, 80°21′54″ W</td>
<td>51°08′09″ N, 80°50′20″ W</td>
<td>From the Kwetabohigan Rapids to Hudson Bay</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>25</td>
<td>Severn River</td>
<td>44°48′13″ N, 79°43′12″ W</td>
<td>44°44′39″ N, 79°20′21″ W</td>
<td>From Lake Couchiching to Lake Huron</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>26</td>
<td>Grand River</td>
<td>42°51′18″ N, 79°34′40″ W</td>
<td>43°08′13″ N, 80°16′09″ W</td>
<td>From the dam at Brantford to Lake Erie</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>27</td>
<td>Holland River East Branch</td>
<td>44°07′35.2″ N, 79°30′15.3″ W</td>
<td>44°07′35″ N, 79°30′15″ W</td>
<td>From the bridge of the Queensville Side Road to Lake Simcoe</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>28</td>
<td>Holland River</td>
<td>44°12′10″ N, 79°30′52″ W</td>
<td>44°06′46″ N, 79°32′44″ W</td>
<td>From the bridge of Bridge Street to Lake Simcoe</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>29</td>
<td>Humber River</td>
<td>43°37′55″ N, 79°28′19″ W</td>
<td>43°39′08″ N, 79°29′44″ W</td>
<td>From the rapids at Old Mill to Lake Ontario</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>30</td>
<td>Welland Canal</td>
<td>43°14′41″ N, 79°12′60″ W</td>
<td>42°52′01″ N, 79°15′06″ W</td>
<td>A canal that connects Lake Erie to Lake Ontario</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>31</td>
<td>North Branch of Muskoka River</td>
<td>45°16′04″ N, 79°13′45″ W</td>
<td>45°18′42″ N, 79°11′46″ W</td>
<td>From Fairy Lake to Mary Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>32</td>
<td>Trent Canal</td>
<td>44°28′17″ N, 79°10′14″ W</td>
<td>44°32′10″ N, 79°04′00″ W</td>
<td>From Canal Lake to Lake Simcoe</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>33</td>
<td>The Canal</td>
<td>45°20′06″ N, 79°08′43″ W</td>
<td>45°20′24″ N, 79°07′57″ W</td>
<td>From Peninsula Lake to Fairy Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>34</td>
<td>Niagara River</td>
<td>43°15′43″ N, 79°04′23″ W</td>
<td>42°53′18″ N, 78°54′43″ W</td>
<td>From Lake Erie to Lake Ontario</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>35</td>
<td>Trent Canal</td>
<td>44°34′59″ N, 79°00′34″ W</td>
<td>44°34′39″ N, 78°53′39″ W</td>
<td>Connecting parts of the Trent-Severn Waterway</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>36</td>
<td>Rosedale River</td>
<td>44°34′13″ N, 78°45′57″ W</td>
<td>44°34′24″ N, 78°47′46″ W</td>
<td>From Balsam Lake to Cameron Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>37</td>
<td>Scugog River</td>
<td>44°24′06″ N, 78°45′00″ W</td>
<td>44°16′9.06″ N, 78°45′11.07″ W</td>
<td>From Lake Scugog to Sturgeon Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>38</td>
<td>Fenelon River</td>
<td>44°31′37″ N, 78°43′41″ W</td>
<td>44°32′13″ N, 78°44′30″ W</td>
<td>From Cameron Lake to Sturgeon Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>39</td>
<td>Pigeon River</td>
<td>44°21′48″ N, 78°30′54″ W</td>
<td>44°17′56″ N, 78°33′20″ W</td>
<td>From a dam in Omemee to Pigeon Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>40</td>
<td>Trent Canal</td>
<td>44°17′55″ N, 78°18′17″ W</td>
<td>44°21′12″ N, 78°17′32″ W</td>
<td>Connecting two parts of the Otonabee River at Peterborough</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>41</td>
<td>Otonabee River</td>
<td>44°09′12″ N, 78°13′51″ W</td>
<td>44°25′58″ N, 78°16′23″ W</td>
<td>From Katchewanooka Lake to Rice Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>42</td>
<td>Murray Canal</td>
<td>44°03′38″ N, 77°35′02″ W</td>
<td>44°01′56″ N, 77°40′37″ W</td>
<td>Connecting two parts of Lake Ontario</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>43</td>
<td>Trent River / Canal</td>
<td>44°05′59″ N, 77°34′18″ W</td>
<td>44°15′40″ N, 78°02′51″ W</td>
<td>From Rice Lake to Lake Ontario</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>44</td>
<td>Petawawa River</td>
<td>45°54′38″ N, 77°15′30″ W</td>
<td>45°53′02″ N, 77°23′27″ W</td>
<td>From the confluence with Barron River to the Ottawa River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>45</td>
<td>Cataraqui River</td>
<td>44°13′37″ N, 76°28′27″ W</td>
<td>44°25′36″ N, 76°18′28″ W</td>
<td>From Cranberry Lake to Lake Ontario</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>46</td>
<td>River Styx</td>
<td>44°19′07″ N, 76°25′36″ W</td>
<td>44°22′21″ N, 76°20′48″ W</td>
<td>From Cataraqui River to Colonel By Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>47</td>
<td>Stevens Creek</td>
<td>44°36′41″ N, 76°23′16″ W</td>
<td>44°37′28″ N, 76°21′38″ W</td>
<td>From Loon Lake to Newboro Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>48</td>
<td>Tay River / Canal</td>
<td>44°52′25″ N, 76°08′10″ W</td>
<td>44°53′50″ N, 76°15′29.5″ W</td>
<td>From the Peter Street bridge in Perth to the Lower Rideau Lake</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>49</td>
<td>Rideau Canal</td>
<td>45°25′36″ N, 75°41′56″ W</td>
<td>45°22′11″ N, 75°41′55″ W</td>
<td>Connecting the Rideau River at Mooney’s Bay to the Ottawa River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>50</td>
<td>Rideau River</td>
<td>45°26′29″ N, 75°41′49″ W</td>
<td>44°52′16″ N, 76°05′01″ W</td>
<td>From Lower Rideau Lake to the Ottawa River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>51</td>
<td>Kemptville Creek</td>
<td>45°03′20″ N, 75°39′15″ W</td>
<td>45°01′39″ N, 75°38′29″ W</td>
<td>From the bridge of Highway 43 to the Rideau River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>52</td>
<td>Ottawa River</td>
<td>45°33′59″ N, 74°23′11″ W</td>
<td>47°07′52″ N, 79°26′45″ W</td>
<td>From Timiskaming Lake to the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>53</td>
<td>Canal de Beauharnois</td>
<td>45°19′13″ N, 73°55′00″ W</td>
<td>45°13′41″ N, 74°10′12″ W</td>
<td>Branch of the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>54</td>
<td>Lachine Canal</td>
<td>45°29′58″ N, 73°33′06″ W</td>
<td>45°25′51″ N, 73°40′10″ W</td>
<td>Branch of the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>55</td>
<td>Rivière des Mille-Îles</td>
<td>45°41′56″ N, 73°31′30″ W</td>
<td>45°31′58″ N, 73°53′05″ W</td>
<td>Branch of the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>56</td>
<td>Rivière des Prairies</td>
<td>45°42′26″ N, 73°28′25″ W</td>
<td>45°28′24″ N, 73°56′27″ W (south branch) and 45°31′22″ N, 73°53′06″ W (north branch)</td>
<td>Branch of the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>57</td>
<td>Richelieu River</td>
<td>46°02′55″ N, 73°07′10″ W</td>
<td>45°00′39″ N, 73°20′38″ W</td>
<td>From the Canada–U.S. border to the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>58</td>
<td>Rivière Saint-Maurice</td>
<td>46°21′04″ N, 72°31′12″ W</td>
<td>46°32′15″ N, 72°46′01″ W</td>
<td>From the Shawinigan Dam to the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>59</td>
<td>Saguenay River</td>
<td>48°07′28″ N, 69°41′07″ W</td>
<td>48°35′09.3″ N, 71°47′05.7″ W</td>
<td>From Lac Saint-Jean to the St. Lawrence River</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>60</td>
<td>Saint John River</td>
<td>45°16′00″ N, 66°04′00″ W</td>
<td>45°57′17″ N, 66°52′07″ W</td>
<td>From the Mactaquac Dam to the Atlantic Ocean</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>61</td>
<td>Saint Lawrence River</td>
<td>49°40′00″ N, 64°29′59″ W</td>
<td>44°06′58″ N, 76°28′43″ W</td>
<td>From Lake Ontario to the Atlantic Ocean</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>62</td>
<td>LaHave River</td>
<td>44°15′59″ N, 64°19′57″ W</td>
<td>44°23′22″ N, 64°31′53″ W</td>
<td>From the rapids in Bridgewater to the Atlantic Ocean</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>63</td>
<td>Nass River</td>
<td>54°59′06.45″ N, 129°43′06.85″ W</td>
<td>56°09′52.19″ N, 129°01′41.06″ W</td>
<td>From the confluence with the Bell-Irving River to the Pacific Ocean</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>64</td>
<td>Nottawasaga River</td>
<td>44°32′18.94″ N, 80°00′28.24″ W</td>
<td>44°08′17.76″ N, 79°48′38.38″ W</td>
<td>From 13th Line Bridge to Lake Huron</td>
</tr>
</table>

> 2012, c. 31, s. 331; SOR/2014-72, ss. 1 to 7, 8(F), 9 to 31; SOR/2016-269; 2019, c. 28, s. 74.


