> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/73/71.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Inclusion Under the Public Service Superannuation Act of the Employees of the Government of the Yukon Territory

**SOR/73-71**

Enabling authorities: 
- APPROPRIATION ACT NO. 5, 1963 

- [PUBLIC SERVICE SUPERANNUATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md)

- [APPROPRIATION ACTS](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/Z/Z-01.md)

Date registered: 31 January 1973

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the President of the Treasury Board, pursuant to Vote 64a of the Appropriation Act No. 5, 1963 and section 32 of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md), is pleased hereby to revoke the Yukon Territory Pension Regulations made by Order in Council P.C. 1964-330 of 28th February, 1964<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup>, and to make in substitution therefor the annexed Regulations respecting the inclusion under the Public Service Superannuation Act of the employees of the Government of the Yukon Territory.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/64-98, Canada Gazette Part II, Vol. 98, No. 6, March 25, 1964<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Yukon Territory Pension Regulations.




## Elective Pensionable Service: Amount Required to Be Paid


**2** Every person who, on the 1st day of April, 1964 was an employee of the Government of the Yukon Territory and who became or becomes a contributor under the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md) on or after that day may, in accordance with that Act and the Regulations made thereunder, elect to count as pensionable service for purposes of that Act, any period of service with the Government of the Yukon Territory that he may have had prior to that day.



**3** A person referred to in section 2 who elects to count any period of elective service described in that section shall, in respect of the period that he elects to count, pay into the Superannuation Account an amount equal to twice the amount calculated in accordance with paragraph 6(1)(e) or (j) of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md), whichever is applicable.


