> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/78/384.md)

# General Import Permit No. 19

**SOR/78-384**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 24 April 1978

----------

The Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, pursuant to section 10 of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby cancels General Import Permit No. 19, dated December 30, 1976<sup><a href='#fn_1e'>[1]</a></sup>, and pursuant to section 8 of the Import Permit Regulations, hereby issues the annexed General Import Permit No. 19 in substitution therefor.

<a name='fn_1e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/77-61, Canada Gazette Part II, Vol. 111, No. 1, January 12, 1977<br />

Dated at Ottawa, April 21, 1978


<p>JACK H. HORNER<br />*Minister of Industry,*<br />*Trade and Commerce*<br /></p>



**1** Any person may, under the authority of this General Import Permit, import into Canada from any country, except Rhodesia, cotton terry towels and washcloths as described in item 29 of the [Import Control List](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/601-700/C.R.C.,%20c.%20604.md)
- **(a)** where the goods are imported by a resident of Canada for his personal use or as gifts and each importation of the goods does not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars in declared value; or
- **(b)** where the imported goods are *bona fide* commercial samples not for sale in Canada and each importation of the goods does not exceed two hundred and fifty dollars in declared value.



**2** Where completion and validation of a Customs entry form is required with respect to any shipment of cotton terry towels and washcloths that is imported under the authority of this General Import Permit, that form shall be endorsed “Imported under the authority of General Import Permit No. 19” or “Importé selon la Licence générale d’importation n<sup>o</sup> 19”.



**3** This General Import Permit shall apply according to its terms before it is published in the Canada Gazette.


