> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/78/68.md)

# Rules Respecting Criminal Appeals Under Sections 678-689 of the Criminal Code and Bail Rules on Appeals to the Court of Appeal for the Northwest Territories

**SOR/78-68**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CRIMINAL CODE](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md)

Date registered: 19 January 1978

----------



Under the authority of section 438 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) the Judges of the Court of Appeal for the Northwest Territories hereby make the following Rules respecting Criminal Appeals and Bail Applications pending appeal.


<table>
<tr>
<th>*CODE REF.*</th>
<th></th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**1** In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires:

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(1)** ***Appellant*** means any person entitled to appeal to the Court under Part XXI of the Code, or Section 839 of the Code, or otherwise under any statute or ordinance giving a right of appeal to the Court of Appeal in summary conviction matters and includes the Attorney-General.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** ***Appellate judge*** means a judge of the Court of Appeal of the Northwest Territories, and includes an *ex officio* judge thereof.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 2

S. 605

</td>
<td>**(3)** ***Attorney-General*** means the Attorney-General as defined in s. 2 of the Code and includes counsel instructed by him for the purpose of an appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** ***Code*** means the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(5)** ***Court*** means the Court of Appeal for the Northwest Territories.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(6)** ***Prisoner appeal*** means an appeal by a person who at the time the notice of appeal is given, is in custody and not represented by counsel.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(7)** ***Registrar*** means the Registrar of the Court of Appeal for the Northwest Territories, Court House, Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, and includes a Deputy, Assistant or Acting Registrar. The Registrar shall also maintain a record of all appeals at an office so designated at the Law Courts in Edmonton, Alberta.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(8)** ***Respondent*** means the Attorney-General in the case of a person who appeals against a conviction or sentence or against a finding or verdict that he is unfit to stand trial, or from a finding of “not guilty” by reason of insanity; and in the case of the Attorney-General who appeals against sentence or acquittal, or a finding of “not guilty” by reason of insanity, or a finding or verdict that the Accused is unfit to stand trial, means the person accused.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(9)** ***Sentence appeal*** means an appeal where only the question of sentence is involved.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(10)** ***Trial disposition*** means a conviction, a sentence, an acquittal, or an order from which there is an appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(11)** ***Trial judge*** means the judge who presided at the trial and includes a judge or deputy judge of the Territorial Court of the Northwest Territories and a judge or deputy judge or *ex officio* judge of the Supreme Court of the Northwest Territories.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(12)** ***Warden*** means the person in charge of any custodial institution, including a remand centre, a gaol, a penitentiary, or a mental hospital.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*GENERAL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**2 (1)** These Rules shall apply to appeals to the Court under:

**(i)** Part XXI of the Code, or section 839 of the Code, or



**(ii)** Any statute or ordinance giving a right of appeal to the Court of Appeal in summary conviction matters.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Numbers preceded by the letter “s” are references to sections of the Code.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** In all matters not provided for by these Rules, the Rules of Court respecting civil appeals shall apply, *mutatis mutandis*, save that there shall be no cross-appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** Non-compliance with the Rules shall not render any proceedings void, but the same may be amended, set aside, or otherwise dealt with as may be just by an Appellate judge or the Court.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 678(2)</td>
<td>**(5) (i)** Any time prescribed by these Rules within which an appeal is to be taken may be extended by an Appellate judge or the Court before or after the expiration thereof, and any other time may similarly be extended or shortened.

**(ii)** Two clear days’ notice in writing of an application to extend or shorten time shall be given to the opposite party unless such application is made on consent, or unless otherwise ordered by an Appellate judge.



**(iii)** An appeal to the Court may be taken from the dismissal by an Appellate judge of an application to extend or shorten time by filing a notice in writing with the registrar within seven (7) days of such dismissal.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(6)** An appeal may be dismissed if the appellant fails to appear when the case is called for hearing, but such order dismissing an appeal may for special reasons be vacated on application to the Court.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(7)** If the appellant or respondent obtains leave of the Court to call further evidence upon the hearing of the appeal, the attendance of any witness or the production of any document may be obtained in the same way as that provided for by the Rules of the Supreme Court in civil matters, and all the provisions of such Rules so far as they are applicable, shall apply to the production of evidence upon an appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(8) (i)** The registrar shall, following the pronouncement of judgment by the Court in every criminal appeal, promptly enter a formal judgment.

**(ii)** Any clerical errors or omissions may be corrected by a single member of the Court pronouncing the judgment.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*METHOD OF APPEALING*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 678(1)</td>
<td>**3** An appeal or an application for leave to appeal under the Code shall be made by filing and serving a notice of appeal in the manner and within the time as hereinafter directed.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**4** An appeal under any statute or ordinance giving a right of appeal in summary conviction matters shall be made by the filing and serving of a notice of appeal in the manner and within such time as is hereinafter directed, provided that there shall be due compliance with any appeals provision in any such statute or ordinance.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*TIME FOR APPEAL AND SERVICE*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 678(1)</td>
<td>**5 (1)** A notice of appeal from conviction, or conviction and sentence, or sentence only, shall be filed and served within sixty (60) days from the date of sentence.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** A notice of appeal from acquittal shall be filed and served within sixty (60) days from the date of acquittal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 675(2)(b)</td>
<td>**(3)** A notice of appeal from a finding of “not guilty” by reason of insanity by an accused person pursuant to s. 675(3) shall be filed and served within sixty (60) days from the date of such finding.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 675(3)

S. 676(3)

</td>
<td>**(4)** A notice of appeal from a finding or verdict that an accused person is unfit to stand trial by reason of insanity by either such accused person or the Attorney-General, pursuant to s. 675(3) or 676(3) shall be filed and served within sixty (60) days from such finding or verdict.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**6 (1)** The filing and serving of a notice of appeal shall be effected:

**(i)** in a prisoner appeal, by serving three (3) copies of the notice of appeal on the warden or the designate of the warden of the institution in which the appellant is in custody. Such officer shall endorse on the copies the date he received them, and shall forthwith return one (1) copy to the appellant, and forthwith forward one (1) copy to the registrar, and shall retain one (1) copy;



**(ii)** in any other appeal by a convicted person, by filing in the office of the registrar or by mailing to him by registered mail three (3) copies of a notice of appeal;



**(iii)** in an appeal by the Attorney-General, by filing two (2) copies of the notice of appeal with the registrar and by personal service on the person in respect of whose trial disposition the appeal is brought, unless otherwise ordered by an Appellate judge; PROVIDED that where substitutional service is ordered, no appeal shall be argued without leave of the Court, and on such application for leave, the Court may give further directions as to service.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Upon receipt of a notice of appeal other than an appeal by the Attorney-General or prosecutor, the registrar shall forthwith forward a copy to the Attorney-General or his counsel at trial, or the prosecutor or his counsel at trial.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** In cases tried before a judge or deputy judge of the Territorial Court of the Northwest Territories, the Registrar shall immediately forward a copy of the notice of appeal to the judge or deputy judge.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** In all other cases, the Registrar shall immediately forward a copy to the clerk of the court in which the trial took place.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*CONTENT OF NOTICE OF APPEAL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 678(1)</td>
<td>**7 (1)** In appeals where the appellant is not represented by counsel, a notice of appeal and application for leave to appeal shall be in Form “A” or to like effect.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** In all other appeals and applications for leave to appeal, the notice of appeal shall be in Form “B” or to like effect.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** Where an appeal or an application for leave to appeal is commenced by an appellant not represented by counsel, and the appellant subsequently retains counsel, the latter shall immediately notify the registrar and the respondent. Thereafter, all relevant Rules relating to appeals which are not appeals by persons not represented by counsel shall apply.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**8** Every notice of appeal and every application for leave to appeal, shall set out the grounds for appeal or application, and shall be signed by the appellant or counsel.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**9 (1)** No time or place for the hearing shall be stated in the notice of appeal. The registrar shall forthwith after receipt of the notice, other than a notice of an application to an Appellate judge for leave to appeal, enter the case on the lists of appeal for the next ensuing sittings of the Court, and all necessary directions as to the hearing of the appeal or application may be given by the Court or any judge thereof.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** In appeals by the Attorney-General, the Attorney-General shall take all reasonable steps to notify a respondent of the time and place for the hearing of the appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*PLACE OF HEARING*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**10** Unless otherwise ordered by the Court or a Judge thereof, all appeals and applications to the Court or a judge thereof for leave to appeal from any trial disposition made in the Northwest Territories shall be heard at Yellowknife, or at such place within the Northwest Territories or the Province of Alberta as may be ordered by the Court or Chief Justice thereof.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*DISPENSING WITH ORAL ARGUMENT*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**10.1 (1)** Where

**(a)** the appeal does not raise complex issues of fact or law,



**(b)** the issues on the appeal require the application of established law or procedure, and



**(c)** the parties to the appeal consent,



the Court may, on such terms as it considers just, direct that argument on an appeal be presented in writing without oral argument.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Where the parties seek to have an appeal entertained in writing only, they must apply to the Registrar jointly in writing setting out the reasons why the appeal is suitable for such procedure and acknowledging their agreement to this procedure.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** The Registrar will direct the application to the panel assigned to the appeal which will decide whether or not to accept the application.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** The panel hearing the appeal may, at any time, direct that there be full or partial oral argument, with the personal attendance of the parties or their counsel, or direct that further argument in writing be submitted.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*APPEALS WHERE LEAVE REQUIRED*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**11 (1)** Applications for leave to appeal may be made to the Court or to an Appellate judge.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** An application for leave to appeal to the Court shall be made by the filing of a notice of appeal, pursuant to these Rules, and no further notice is required.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** Where the Court grants leave to appeal, it may at once determine the appeal on its merits or it may direct that the appeal be heard at a later time.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** An application for leave to appeal to an Appellate judge shall be made by filing a notice of appeal pursuant to these Rules, and by filing with the registrar contemporaneously, or thereafter, a notice of motion. Such notice of motion shall be served on the respondent not less than two (2) clear days before the return of the motion, unless otherwise ordered.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 675(1)(a)(ii)</td>
<td>**(5)** If an appellate judge refuses leave to appeal against a conviction in respect of an application brought pursuant to s. 675(1)(a)(ii), the applicant may, by filing a notice in writing with the registrar within seven (7) days of such refusal, have the application for leave to appeal determined by the Court.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 675(1)(b)

S. 675(3)

</td>
<td>**(6)** If an Appellate judge refuses leave to appeal from sentence in respect of an application brought pursuant to s. 675(1)(b), such determination is final, and no appeal from such order lies.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 675(1)(a)(ii)</td>
<td>**12 (1)** An application to a trial judge for a certificate under s. 675(1)(a)(ii) shall be made within thirty (30) days from the date of sentence, and may be made *ex parte*, or if the trial judge requires, on at lest two (2) clear days’ notice to the Attorney-General.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Where a trial judge requires notice of the application:

**(i)** the notice may be returnable before or after the expiration of the thirty (30) days mentioned above;



**(ii)** a copy of the notice shall be mailed to or filed with the registrar;



**(iii)** if the certificate is granted, the notice of appeal shall be mailed or filed within thirty (30) days from the date of sentence, or within two (2) clear days after the certificate is granted, whichever is the later.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*SENTENCE APPEALS WITH COUNSEL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**13 (1)** In an appeal against sentence, where the appellant is represented by counsel, unless otherwise ordered by the Court or a judge thereof, there shall be filed by the appellant with the registrar six (6) copies of a group of documents entitled “Sentence Material”, and a further copy shall forthwith be served upon the respondent.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** The Sentence Material shall be filed with the registrar at least fourteen (14) days before the opening of the Court.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** The Sentence Material shall include the following:

**(i)** the Information or Indictment and sentence;



**(ii)** a Statement of Facts as related to the trial judge;



**(iii)** any pre-sentence or post-sentence reports;



**(iv)** a transcript of the Reasons for Judgment and for sentence given by the trial judge; the criminal record, if any, of the convicted person, as disclosed to the trial judge.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** Where an appeal book has been filed, the Sentence Material need not include any material already contained in the Appeal Book.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(5)** Six (6) copies of written material to be used in support of a respondent’s argument shall be filed with the registrar seven (7) days before the opening of the Court, unless the Court otherwise orders, and a further copy shall be forthwith served upon the appellant.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*SENTENCE APPEALS WITHOUT COUNSEL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**14 (1)** In an appeal against sentence, where the appellant is not represented by counsel, he may present his argument orally or in writing, but in order to do so orally, he must signify in his notice of appeal his desire to be present, if he is in custody.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Any argument in writing shall be filed with the registrar prior to the day fixed for the hearing.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*SENTENCE APPEALS GENERALLY*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 614</td>
<td>**15 (1)** In an appeal against sentence by a convicted person, the Attorney-General, if he intends upon the hearing of the appeal to contend that the sentence should be increased or varied, shall, not less than three (3) days before the commencement of the sittings of the Court at which the appeal comes to be heard, give notice of such intention in writing to the appellant or his counsel.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** In any appeal against sentence by either a convicted person or the Attorney-General, the Court of its own motion may treat the whole matter of sentence as open, and on an appeal by a convicted person, may increase or vary the sentence, and on an appeal by the Attorney-General, decrease or vary the sentence, PROVIDED that notice that such increase or variation is to be considered, is given by the Court so that the convicted person or the Attorney-General may be heard on such disposition.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*APPEALS OTHER THAN SENTENCE APPEALS*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**16 (1)** Except in sentence appeals, or unless otherwise ordered, the appellant shall:

**(i)** file six (6) copies of an appeal book with the registrar;



**(ii)** deliver one (1) copy of the appeal book to the respondent.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** The appeal book shall be furnished to the appellant upon payment of the fees from time to time authorized by the tariff of fees payable to the office of the court reporters.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** Unless otherwise ordered by the Court or a judge thereof, the Appeal Book shall contain:

**(i)** the Information or Indictment;



**(ii)** the transcript of the evidence, including exhibits;



**(iii)** Counsels’ addresses;



**(iv)** Charge to the jury and verdict of the jury;



**(v)** Reasons for Judgment;



**(vi)** Formal certificate of conviction (or acquittal);



**(vii)** Notice of appeal (or notice of application for leave to appeal).



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**17** Except in sentence appeals, or unless otherwise ordered,

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(1)** when an appellant is represented by counsel, the appellant shall:

**(i)** file six (6) copies of a factum with the registrar;



**(ii)** deliver one (1) copy of a factum to the respondent twenty-eight (28) days before the date of commencement of the sittings at which the appeal is to be heard.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** when a respondent is represented by counsel, the respondent shall:

**(i)** file six (6) copies of a factum with the registrar;



**(ii)** deliver one (1) copy of a factum to the appellant fourteen (14) days before the date of commencement of the sittings at which the appeal is to be heard.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*FURNISHING CERTIFIED COPIES*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 438(2)(v)</td>
<td>**18** The magistrate or deputy magistrate before whom a trial took place, or the clerk of the Court shall, upon request, forward to the Attorney-General and the counsel who acted for the Attorney-General at the trial, certified copies of the documents, exhibits and things connected with the proceedings which are in his custody and control, and which are required for the purposes of an appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*REPORT OF A TRIAL JUDGE*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 609(1)</td>
<td>**19 (1)** Where an appeal is taken or an application for leave to appeal is made, the trial judge shall, at the request of the Court or a judge thereof, furnish to the registrar a report on the case or on any matter relating to the case which is specified in the request.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Forthwith after the registrar receives the report, he shall mail a copy of it to the appellant and to the respondent, or to their counsel.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*DISPOSITION OF DOCUMENTS AND EXHIBITS*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**20 (1)** Subject to the other subsections of this Rule, all documents, exhibits and things connected with a trial shall be retained by the trial judge or by the clerk of the Court for eighty (80) days after sentence or acquittal, as the case may be.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** At any time after a trial, the trial judge or an Appellate judge may make such order as to the custody or conditional release of any document, exhibit or thing as the special circumstances of the case may require.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** Upon the filing of written consents by the accused or his counsel, and by the Attorney-General or his counsel, the trial judge or the clerk of the Court shall deliver any document, exhibit or thing in accordance with such consents.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** Upon receipt of a copy of a notice of appeal, the trial judge or the clerk of the Court shall forward to the registrar all documents, exhibits and things connected with the proceedings at the trial, other than such as may already have been released pursuant to subsections (2) and (3) hereof.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*VERIFICATION OF TRANSCRIPTS AND DEPOSITIONS AT TRIAL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 487

S. 540

S. 575

</td>
<td>**21 (1)** A transcript of the evidence of proceedings taken in shorthand at a trial and certified by the court reporter who made or extended the transcript shall be *prima facie* proof of such evidence and proceedings.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Where the evidence and proceedings are not taken by a court reporter, but by a sound-recording apparatus, as authorized under legislation, a transcript of such recording, certified by a court recorder, shall be *prima facie* proof of such evidence and proceedings.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** Where the evidence and proceedings are not taken by a court reporter, and are not taken by a sound-recording apparatus, as authorized under legislation, then depositions taken in accordance with s. 540 shall be *prima facie* proof of such evidence and proceedings.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*COMPENSATION OR RESTITUTION OF PROPERTY*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 689

S. 738

S. 739

</td>
<td>**22** An order for the restitution of property under ss. 738 or 739 shall provide for securing the safe custody of the property referred to in the order, for the period during which its operation is suspended by virtue of s. 689.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*RELEASE FROM CUSTODY PENDING APPEAL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 608(1)(a)</td>
<td>**23 (1)** All applications for release from custody pending the determination of an appeal to the Court shall be made to an Appellate judge. No application for release from custody pending the determination of an appeal shall be entertained unless the applicant has filed with the registrar a notice of appeal or an application for leave to appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 608(1)(b)</td>
<td>**(2)** No application for release from custody pending the determination of an appeal from sentence only shall be granted unless the appellant has been granted leave to appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** An application for leave to appeal may be combined and heard with an application for release from custody pending appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>S. 608(1)(c)</td>
<td>**(4)** No application for release pending the determination of an appeal or motion for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada shall be entertained unless the applicant has filed and served his notice of appeal, or, where leave is required, his application for leave to appeal.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**24 (1)** Where an applicant applies for release from custody pending determination of appeal, he shall give written notice of such application to the prosecutor. Such notice shall be two (2) clear days’ notice, unless both parties attend upon an Appellate judge or the judge otherwise orders.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** The application shall be supported:

**A** by an affidavit stating:

**(i)** his place of abode in the three years preceding his conviction, and where he proposes to reside if released;



**(ii)** his employment, if any, prior to conviction, and whether he expects to be employed if released;



**(iii)** his criminal record, if any, including convictions outside Canada;



**(iv)** whether criminal charges are, at the time of the application, pending against him, either in Canada or elsewhere.





**B** by his undertaking to surrender himself into custody in accordance with the terms of any order granted.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** An Appellate Court judge may dispense with the filing of the affidavit referred to above, and may act upon a statement of facts conveyed to him by counsel for the applicant and for the Attorney-General, which statements of fact the judge may require each counsel to put in writing and file with the registrar.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(4)** A judge of the Court which orders a new trial may forthwith entertain an application for interim release pending the new trial.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(5)** An order for release of an appellant pending the determination of an appeal shall be in Form “C” and shall specify the terms and conditions of release and when it is to take effect.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*ABANDONMENT OF APPEALS*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**25 (1)** An appellant who desires to abandon an appeal may do so at any time before the hearing of the appeal commences by completing a Notice of Abandonment in Form “D”, or to like effect, and by filing or sending the same to the registrar. Form “D” shall be signed by the appellant, or by his solicitor of record in the appeal. In the former case, the signature of the appellant shall be verified by affidavit or witnessed by a solicitor or by an officer of the institution in which the appellant is confined.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(2)** Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this Rule, the appellant may be given leave by the Court to an appeal after the commencement of argument.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**(3)** An appeal which is abandoned shall be as if no appeal had been taken.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>*DISSEMINATION OF RULES*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>**26** A sufficient number of copies of these Rules shall be prepared by the registrar at Yellowknife and sent to every keeper of a Gaol or Correctional Institute in the Northwest Territories and to the wardens of the Penitentiary at Prince Albert, and the Penitentiary at Drumheller, and such other penal institutions as may be operated by the Government of Canada to which prisoners from the Northwest Territories are confined, and the registrar shall also send to the said keepers and wardens a copy of Sections 675, 678, 683 and 685 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) for any convicted person in his custody who requests the same.

These Rules shall come into force on the 30th day of June, A.D. 1978, on which date the Rules respecting criminal appeals to the Court of Appeal for the Northwest Territories heretofore in force cease to be in force, without prejudice to any proceedings under the said Rules which may have been taken prior to the 30th June, 1978.

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2000-232, ss. 2 to 13, 16(F).



--------------------------


### **FORM “A”** 
<table>
<tr>
<td>TO BE USED WHEN APPELLANT IS NOT REPRESENTED BY COUNSEL — RULE 7(1)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>IN THE COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIES</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> APPELLANT</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Fill in Full Name)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>-v-</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> RESPONDENT</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TO:</td>
<td>THE REGISTRAR,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Court of Appeal for the</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Northwest Territories,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Court House,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>YELLOWKNIFE, N.W.T.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>*NOTICE OF APPEAL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>On the _________________________ day of _________________________ 19&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; at 

Northwest Territories, I was convicted on charges of 







</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>in the Magistrate’s ☐ Court</td>
<td>Supreme ☐ Court</td>
<td>and was</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>sentenced to </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>At trial I pleaded &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; GUILTY ☐ &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; NOT GUILTY ☐</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>My address is: 





</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>I, the above appellant, hereby give notice that I desire to appeal and if necessary for me to do so, to apply for leave to appeal against Conviction Only &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Sentence Only &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; or both Conviction and Sentence for the following reasons: (Set out reasons.) (If the space is insufficient, put additional grounds on the reverse side of this form.)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>I wish&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;do not wish&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;to be present at the hearing of the appeal. (S. 688)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>If a new trial is ordered and I have a right to trial by judge and jury, I wish&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;do not wish&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;trial by judge and jury.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATED this &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; day of &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, 19&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>SIGNED: 

(APPELLANT)



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(IF APPELLANT IS IN CUSTODY)

3 copies of this Notice of Appeal are to be served upon the Warden or designate of the Warden of the Institution in which the Appellant is imprisoned within sixty (60) days of the sentence being imposed upon him.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(IF APPELLANT IS NOT IN CUSTODY)

3 copies of this Notice of Appeal are to be filed in the office of the Registrar or mailed to him by registered mail within sixty (60) days from the date of the sentence imposed upon him.



</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2000-232, ss. 14, 16(F).



--------------------------


### **FORM “B”** 
<table>
<tr>
<td>TO BE USED WHERE NOTICE IS FILED BY COUNSEL FOR AN APPELLANT OR ON BEHALF OF THE ATTORNEY-GENERAL — RULE 7(2)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>IN THE COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIES</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
____________________
APPELLANT&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
____________________
RESPONDENT

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TO:</td>
<td>The Registrar,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Court of Appeal for the</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Northwest Territories,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>Court House,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>YELLOWKNIFE, N.W.T.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>*NOTICE OF APPEAL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>*PARTICULARS*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>The Appeal is in respect of indictable offence, or by way of further Appeal from the Magistrate’s Court in respect of a summary conviction offence.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>(INDICTABLE OFFENCE&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ☐</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>SUMMARY CONVICTION&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ☐)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Place of Trial </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Name of Judge </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Name of Court </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Name of Crown Prosecutor at Trial </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Name of Defence Counsel at Trial </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Offences of which Appellant convicted or acquitted 

















</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>Sections of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) or other Statutes under which Appellant convicted 





</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>Plea at Trial </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Sentence imposed </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Date of Sentence or Acquittal </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>If Appellant in custody, place of incarceration 





</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>TAKE NOTICE that the Appellant: (mark with an “x” which of the following are applicable)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(1)</td>
<td>appeals against conviction (or acquittal) on grounds involving a question of law alone;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(2)</td>
<td>applies for Leave to Appeal his conviction on grounds involving a question of fact alone or a question of mixed law and fact, and if Leave be granted, hereby appeals against the said conviction; ☐</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(3)</td>
<td>applies for Leave to Appeal against sentence, and if Leave be granted, hereby appeals against the sentence.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The grounds of Appeal are annexed hereto.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The relief sought is 









</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(The Appellant wishes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;does not wish&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;to be present at the hearing of the Appeal.)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>If a new Trial is ordered and the Appellant has a right to a Trial by Judge and Jury, the Appellant wishes&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;does not wish&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;☐ the new Trial to be by Judge and Jury.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The Appellant’s address for service is </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATED at _________________________ Northwest Territories this &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; day of &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;, 19&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
____________________
Counsel for the Appellant

</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2000-232, s. 16(F).



--------------------------


### **FORM “C”** 
<table>
<tr>
<td>IN THE COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIES</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>BETWEEN:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Appellant</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>- and -</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Respondent</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Before His Lordship</td>
<td>_________________________day theday</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The Honourable Mr. Justice&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;}</td>
<td>of </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td></td>
<td>A.D. 19&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; at </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>In Chambers</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>*ORDER*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>UPON the application of the above-named appellant _________________________ for an order releasing him pending the determination of his appeal herein, notice of which appeal has been given (or leave to appeal sentence having been granted as the case may be);</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AND UPON hearing  of

Counsel for the Appellant and  of



Counsel for the Crown (Respondent);



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>AND UPON reading the said Notice of Appeal and the Notice of Application for Bail and the Affidavit of the Appellant;</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT the Appellant be released from custody pending the determination of his appeal upon (set forth the terms and conditions directed under Section 679(5) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md)).</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
____________________
Registrar or Judge

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>ENTERED this &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; day of &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A.D. 19&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
____________________
Registrar

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(Where an Order has been obtained releasing the Appellant pursuant to Subsection 679(5) of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) it should be noted that Subsection 679(9) provides that an undertaking in this section may be in Form 12 and a Recognizance may be in Form 32.)</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2000-232, ss. 15, 16(F).



--------------------------


### **FORM “D” — RULE 25(1)** 
<table>
<tr>
<td>IN THE COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIES</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>*NOTICE OF ABANDONMENT OF APPEAL*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
____________________
APPELLANT

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
____________________
RESPONDENT

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>The Registrar,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Court of Appeal for the</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Northwest Territories,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Court House,</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>YELLOWKNIFE, N.W.T.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>I,  of

 give notice that I abandon my Appeal.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>DATED at 

the_________________________ day of_________________________ 19&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>THIS NOTICE WAS SIGNED IN THE PRESENCE OF:</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
____________________
WITNESS&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
____________________
(APPELLANT) (OR HIS SOLICITOR, AS THE CASE MAY BE)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>NOTE: If this notice of abandonment of Appeal is signed by the Appellant personally, Rule 25(1) requires that his signature *must* be verified by affidavit or witnessed by a solicitor, or by an officer of the institution in which he may be confined.</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2000-232, s. 16(F).

THE RULES RELATING TO CRIMINAL APPEALS ABOVE SET OUT AND ATTESTED BY THE MEMBERS OF THE COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIES HAVE BEEN MADE BY THE COURT OF APPEAL FOR THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIES WITH THE CONCURRENCE OF ALL JUDGES THEREOF PRESENT AT A MEETING CALLED FOR THE PURPOSE HELD AT CALGARY, ALBERTA, ON THE 16th DAY OF JANUARY A.D. 1978, PURSUANT TO SECTION 438 OF THE [CRIMINAL CODE](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).


<p>_________________________<br />McGILLIVRAY, C.J.A.<br />_________________________<br />McDERMID, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />MADDISON, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />SINCLAIR, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />CLEMENT, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />LIEBERMAN, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />PROWSE, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />MOIR, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />HADDAD, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />MORROW, J.A.<br />_________________________<br />TALLIS, J.A.<br /></p>

