> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/78/73.md)

# Regulations Respecting Conversion of Values Expressed in Gold Francs into Canadian Dollar Equivalents for Purposes of the Canada Shipping Act

**SOR/78-73**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CURRENCY ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-52.md)

Date registered: 24 January 1978

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, is pleased hereby

**(a)** to revoke, pursuant to subsection 651(1) of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), the Gold Franc Equivalent Order made by Order in Council P.C. 1975-2579 of 28th October, 1975<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup>, as amended<sup><a href='#footnote2_e'>[2]</a></sup>; and



**(b)** to make, pursuant to section 2 of An Act to amend the Currency and Exchange Act and other Acts in consequence thereof, being chapter 38 of the Statutes of Canada, 1976-77, the annexed Regulations respecting Conversion of Values expressed in Gold Francs into Canadian Dollar Equivalents for purposes of the Canada Shipping Act.



<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/75-639, Canada Gazette Part II, Vol. 109, No. 21, November 12, 1975<br />

<a name='footnote2_e'><sup>2</sup></a>: SOR/77-129, Canada Gazette Part II, Vol. 111, No. 4, February 23, 1977<br />




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Canada Shipping Act Gold Franc Conversion Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations, ***S.D.R.*** means the special drawing rights issued by the International Monetary Fund.




## General


**3** For the purposes of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), the equivalent dollar value of gold francs shall be determined as follows:
- **(a)** gold francs shall be converted into S.D.R.’s at the exchange rate of 15.075 gold francs per S.D.R.; and
- **(b)** S.D.R.’s shall be converted into Canadian dollars at the exchange rate established by the International Monetary Fund for S.D.R.’s and Canadian dollars.


