> [Go to French version](/fr/Lois/Lois%20révisées%20du%20Canada/A/A-9.md)

# Department of Agriculture and Agri-Food Act

**R.S.C. 1985, c. A-9**


----------



## Short Title



**Short title**

**1** This Act may be cited as the Department of Agriculture and Agri-Food Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. A-9, s. 1; 1994, c. 38, s. 2.





## Establishment of the Department



**Department established**

**2** 

- **(1)** There is hereby established a department of the Government of Canada called the Department of Agriculture and Agri-Food over which the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food appointed by commission under the Great Seal shall preside.

**Minister**

- **(2)** The Minister holds office during pleasure and has the management and direction of the Department.
> R.S., 1985, c. A-9, s. 2; 1994, c. 38, s. 3.





**Deputy head**

**3** The Governor in Council may appoint an officer called the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food to hold office during pleasure and to be the deputy head of the Department.
> R.S., 1985, c. A-9, s. 3; 1994, c. 38, s. 4.





## Powers, Duties and Functions of the Minister



**Powers, duties and functions of Minister**

**4** The powers, duties and functions of the Minister extend to and include all matters over which Parliament has jurisdiction, not by law assigned to any other department, board or agency of the Government of Canada, relating to
- **(a)** agriculture;
- **(b)** products derived from agriculture; and
- **(c)** research related to agriculture and products derived from agriculture including the operation of experimental farm stations.
- **(d)** [Repealed, 1989, c. 27, s. 20]
> R.S., 1985, c. A-9, s. 4; 1989, c. 27, s. 20; 1994, c. 38, s. 5.





**Other powers or duties of the Minister**

**5** The Governor in Council may assign any other power or duty to the Minister.
> R.S., c. A-10, s. 5.





**Inspection services**

**5.01** The Minister may designate any person as an inspector for the purpose of providing the inspection services that the Minister considers necessary for the enforcement of any Act in respect of which the Minister has any powers, duties or functions.
> 1994, c. 38, s. 6.





**Regulations**

**5.1** The Governor in Council may make such regulations as the Governor in Council deems necessary for implementing in any manner Article 708 of the Agreement, as defined in section 2 of the [Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1988/c.%2065.md), including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulations exempting, for that purpose, subject to such terms and conditions as the Governor in Council deems appropriate, from the application of any provision of any Act or regulation, any person or class of persons or any good, animal or thing or class of goods, animals or things imported into Canada from the United States as defined in section 2 of that Act.
> 1988, c. 65, s. 46.




**6** [Repealed, 1994, c. 38, s. 7]


