> [Go to French version](/fr/Lois/Lois%20révisées%20du%20Canada/P/P-14.md)

# Pilotage Act

**R.S.C. 1985, c. P-14**


----------



## Short Title



**Short title**

**1** This Act may be cited as the Pilotage Act.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 1





## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1.1** The definitions in this section apply in this Act.

***apprentice pilot*** means an individual who is training to become a licensed pilot. (*apprenti-pilote*)

***Authority*** means a Pilotage Authority established by section 3. (*Administration*)

***authorized representative*** has the same meaning as in section 2 of the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md). (*représentant autorisé*)

***compulsory pilotage*** means, in respect of a ship, the requirement that the ship be under the conduct of a licensed pilot or a pilotage certificate holder. (*pilotage obligatoire*)

***compulsory pilotage area*** means an area of water in which ships are subject to compulsory pilotage. (*zone de pilotage obligatoire*)

 ***licence*** means a licence issued by an Authority under section 22. (*brevet*)

***licensed pilot*** means an individual who holds a valid licence. (*pilote breveté*)

***Minister*** means the Minister of Transport. (*ministre*)

***person*** includes a partnership, an unincorporated organization, an association and a trust. (*personne*)

***person in charge*** means, in respect of a ship, the owner, master or authorized representative of the ship, and any individual who is or appears to be in command, control or charge of the ship or who has management of the ship, but does not include a licensed pilot, while the pilot is exercising their powers or performing their duties or functions under this Act. (*responsable*)

***pilot*** means any individual who does not belong to a ship and who has the conduct of it. (*pilote*)

***pilotage certificate*** means a certificate issued by an Authority under section 22. (*certificat de pilotage*)

***pilotage certificate holder*** means the holder of a valid pilotage certificate. (*titulaire d’un certificat de pilotage*)

***regular member of a ship’s complement*** means an individual who occupies a position on board a ship for the purpose of meeting the requirements of the [Marine Personnel Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2007/115.md) for safe manning in relation to a proper deck watch and the safe operation of the ship. (*membre régulier de l’effectif du navire*)

 ***ship*** includes any description of vessel or boat used or designed for use in navigation, without regard to method or lack of propulsion. (*navire*)

***Tribunal*** means the Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada established under subsection 2(1) of the [Transportation Appeal Tribunal of Canada Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2029.md). (*Tribunal*)
> 2001, c. 26, s. 3162019, c. 29, s. 225





## Purpose and Principles



**Purpose and principles**

**2** The purpose of this Act is to set out a framework for the provision of pilotage services in accordance with the following principles:
- **(a)** that pilotage services be provided in a manner that promotes and contributes to the safety of navigation, including the safety of the public and marine personnel, and that protects human health, property and the environment;
- **(b)** that pilotage services be provided in an efficient and cost-effective manner;
- **(c)** that risk management tools be used effectively and that evolving technologies be taken into consideration; and
- **(d)** that an Authority’s pilotage charges be set at levels that allow the Authority to be financially self-sufficient.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 2; 2001, c. 26, s. 3162019, c. 29, s. 226





## Pilotage Authorities



### Establishment



**Pilotage Authorities established**

**3** 

- **(1)** Each Pilotage Authority named in the schedule is hereby established as a body corporate consisting of a Chairperson and not more than six other members.

**Appointment of Chairperson of Authority**

- **(2)** On the recommendation of the Minister and after consultation with members of the Authority and with the users of its services, the Governor in Council may appoint the Chairperson of an Authority to hold office during pleasure for the term that the Governor in Council considers appropriate.

**Other members**

- **(3)** Each of the other members of an Authority shall be appointed by the Minister, with the approval of the Governor in Council, to hold office during pleasure for a term, not exceeding four years, that will ensure, as far as possible, the expiration in any one year of the terms of office of not more than one half of the members.

**Full- or part-time**

- **(3.1)** The Chairperson and the Vice-Chairperson may be appointed to serve full-time or part-time.

**Ineligibility**

- **(3.2)** An individual who is engaged in the business of providing pilotage services — or who is employed by a person that is engaged in the business of providing pilotage services or that uses pilotage services — is not eligible to be the Chairperson or other member of an Authority.

**Head office**

- **(4)** An Authority shall have its head office at the place named in respect of that Authority in the schedule.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 3; R.S., 1985, c. 1 (4th Supp.), s. 44(E); 1998, c. 10, s. 145; 2006, c. 9, ss. 290, 294(E)2019, c. 29, s. 227





**Alteration**

**4** The Governor in Council may, by order,
- **(a)** extend the boundaries of any region set out in the schedule to include any Canadian waters not included in the schedule;
- **(b)** change the name of an Authority;
- **(c)** change the place of the head office of an Authority; and
- **(d)** establish new Authorities and, in respect of any new Authority, prescribe the boundaries of its region and name the place at which the head office shall be situated and any new Authority shall be deemed to be an Authority established under subsection 3(1) and any such region shall be deemed to be a region set out in the schedule.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 42019, c. 29, s. 228




**5** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 229]



**6 to 8** [Repealed, 1998, c. 10, s. 146]




**Not agent of Her Majesty**

**9** An Authority is not an agent of Her Majesty.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 5





### Organization



**Vice-Chair­person**

**10** The Governor in Council may appoint one of the members, other than the Chairperson, of an Authority to be Vice-Chairperson.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 10; 2006, c. 9, s. 291(E)





**Reappointment**

**11** On the expiration of the term of office of a member of an Authority, the member is eligible for reappointment in the same or another capacity.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 11; 1998, c. 10, s. 146.1





**Temporary substitute member**

**12** If a member of any Authority is unable at any time to perform the duties of office of the member by reason of absence or incapacity, the Governor in Council may, on such terms and conditions as the Governor in Council may prescribe, appoint a temporary substitute member.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 6





**Chairperson**

**13** 

- **(1)** Where the Chairperson of an Authority serves full-time, the Chairperson has the direction and control of the business of the Authority and may exercise such powers as may be conferred on the Chairperson by by-law of the Authority.

**Part-time**

- **(1.1)** Where the Chairperson of an Authority serves part-time, the board appoints a chief executive officer who has the direction and control of the business of the Authority and who may exercise such powers as may be conferred on the chief executive officer by by-law of the Authority.

**When Vice-Chair­person to act**

- **(2)** In the event of the absence or incapacity of the Chairperson of an Authority, or if the office of Chairperson is vacant, the Vice-Chairperson, if any, of the Authority shall act as Chairperson.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 13; 1998, c. 10, s. 147; 2006, c. 9, ss. 292(E), 294(E)





**Remuneration**

**14** 

- **(1)** The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of an Authority shall be paid remuneration to be fixed by the Governor in Council.

**Members’ allowances**

- **(2)** A member, other than the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson, of an Authority shall be paid a daily allowance to be fixed by the Governor in Council for each day that the member is engaged on the business of the Authority.

**Expenses**

- **(3)** Each member of an Authority is entitled to be paid reasonable travel and other expenses incurred by the member while absent from their ordinary place of residence in the course of their duties under this Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 14; 2001, c. 26, s. 318; 2006, c. 9, s. 293(E)2019, c. 29, s. 230





**Employment of staff**

**15** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), an Authority may employ such officers and employees, including licensed pilots and apprentice pilots, as are necessary for the proper conduct of the work of the Authority.

**Contract with body corporate for services**

- **(2)** Where a majority of licensed pilots within the region, or any part thereof, set out in respect of an Authority in the schedule who form or are members or shareholders of a body corporate elect not to become employees of the Authority, the Authority may contract with that body corporate for the services of licensed pilots and the training of apprentice pilots in the region or part thereof where the contract is to be effective, and the Authority shall not employ pilots or apprentice pilots in the region or that part thereof where such a contract is in effect.

**Pilots may join body corporate**

- **(3)** Any body corporate that contracts, pursuant to subsection (2), with an Authority shall permit a licensed pilot or apprentice pilot in the region or part thereof to which the contract relates who is not a member or shareholder of that body corporate to become a member or shareholder on the same terms and conditions as the licensed pilots and apprentice pilots who formed or are members or shareholders of that body corporate.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 9





**Renewal of contract**

**15.1** 

- **(1)** Where a contract for services referred to in subsection 15(2) does not provide a mechanism for the resolution of disputes in the contract renewal process, fifty days before the contract expires, the parties to the contract shall jointly choose a mediator and an arbitrator and shall refer to the mediator all issues related to the renewal of the contract that remain unresolved.

**No agreement**

- **(2)** The Minister shall choose the mediator or arbitrator if the parties cannot agree on one or if the one they choose is unavailable.

**Mediation**

- **(3)** The mediator has thirty days in which to bring the parties to agreement on the outstanding issues, at the end of which time the parties to the contract shall refer all of the remaining outstanding issues to the arbitrator.
> 1998, c. 10, s. 148





**Final offers**

**15.2** 

- **(1)** The parties to the contract shall each submit a final offer in respect of the outstanding issues to each other and to the arbitrator within five days after the date on which those issues are referred to the arbitrator.

**Decision of arbitrator**

- **(2)** The arbitrator shall consider, among other things, the principles set out in section 2 and, within 15 days, choose one or other of the final offers in its entirety.

**Effect of decision**

- **(3)** The final offer chosen by the arbitrator is final and binding and becomes part of the new contract for services that is effective on the day after the former contract expires.

**Sharing of costs**

- **(4)** The parties to the contract shall share equally the cost of the fees of the mediator or arbitrator.
> 1998, c. 10, s. 1482019, c. 29, s. 231





**Continuation of services**

**15.3** A body corporate with which an Authority has contracted for services under subsection 15(2) and the members and shareholders of the body corporate are prohibited from refusing to provide pilotage services while a contract for services is in effect or being negotiated.
> 1998, c. 10, s. 148





**Content of contracts for service**

**15.4** An Authority is not authorized to enter into or amend a contract for services referred to in subsection 15(2) that deals with a subject referred to in any of paragraphs 52(1)(a) to (o).
> 2019, c. 29, s. 232





**Availability of contracts for service**

**15.5** An Authority shall, on request, provide to any person a copy of any contract for services referred to in subsection 15(2) that the Authority has entered into.
> 2019, c. 29, s. 232





**Contract pilots**

**15.6** If an Authority requires the services of a licensed pilot in a compulsory pilotage area for which the Authority has no employees or for which a body corporate referred to in subsection 15(2) has not been established, the Authority may contract with one or more licensed pilots for the provision of those services.
> 2019, c. 29, s. 232





**Authority a Public Service corporation**

**16** 

- **(1)** An Authority shall be deemed to be a Public Service corporation for the purposes of section 37 of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md).

**[Government Employees Compensation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-5.md) and [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)**

- **(2)** Officers and employees of an Authority shall be deemed to be persons employed in the federal public administration for the purposes of the [Government Employees Compensation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-5.md) and any regulations made pursuant to section 9 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md).
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 16; 2003, c. 22, s. 224(E)





**By-laws**

**17** 

- **(1)** An Authority may make by-laws respecting the management of its internal affairs, including by-laws
	- **(a)** respecting the duties of its members, officers and employees;
	- **(b)** delegating to any person, either generally or with reference to any particular matter, all or any of
		- **(i)** the powers of the Chairperson of the Authority, and
		- **(ii)** the powers of the Authority, except the power to make a by-law or a regulation; and
	- **(c)** respecting the management and control of its property.

**Copies made available**

- **(2)** An Authority shall supply a copy of any by-law of the Authority to any interested person who requests a copy.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 17; 2006, c. 9, s. 294(E)





### Objects and Powers



**Objects**

**18** In keeping with the principles set out in section 2, the objects of an Authority are to establish, operate, maintain and administer, in the interests of safety of navigation, an efficient pilotage service within the region set out in respect of the Authority in the schedule.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 182019, c. 29, s. 234





**Powers**

**19** 

- **(1)** An Authority may, for its use, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire
	- **(a)** land, buildings, wharves or other structures;
	- **(b)** pilot boats;
	- **(c)** radio and other communication equipment; and
	- **(d)** such other equipment, supplies and services as may be necessary for the operation of an efficient and economical pilotage service.

**Idem**

- **(2)** An Authority may sell or lease any land, buildings, wharves, structures, pilot boats or equipment and supplies acquired pursuant to subsection (1).
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 13





**Regulations**

**20** 

- **(1)** An Authority may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, make regulations necessary for the attainment of its objects, including, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, regulations
	- **(a)** establishing compulsory pilotage areas;
	- **(b)** prescribing the ships or classes of ships that are subject to compulsory pilotage;
	- **(c)** prescribing the circumstances under which compulsory pilotage may be waived;
	- **(d)** prescribing the notice, if any, to be given by a ship, of its estimated time of arrival in a compulsory pilotage area or its estimated time of departure from a place in a compulsory pilotage area and the manner of giving the notice;
	- **(e)** prescribing classes of licences and classes of pilotage certificates that may be issued;
	- **(f)** prescribing the qualifications that a holder of any class of licence or any class of pilotage certificate shall meet, including the degree of local knowledge, skill, experience and proficiency in one or both of the official languages of Canada required, in addition to the minimum qualifications prescribed by the Governor in Council under section 52;
	- **(g)** prescribing the manner for determining whether a person who applies for a licence or pilotage certificate, or a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate, meets the qualifications prescribed under paragraph (f) for the class of licence or pilotage certificate applied for or held, as the case may be;
	- **(h)** prescribing the manner of issuing licences and pilotage certificates;
	- **(i)** setting the time and fixing the fee for any examination relating to the issue of a licence or pilotage certificate and the fee for issuing a licence or pilotage certificate;
	- **(j)** limiting the number of licences that may be issued for any compulsory pilotage area;
	- **(k)** prescribing the conditions, in addition to anything provided by subsection 25(1), under which a ship shall have a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate on board;
	- **(l)** prescribing the minimum number of licensed pilots or holders of pilotage certificates that shall be on board ship at any time; and
	- **(m)** prescribing the circumstances under which a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate shall be required to take further training to be enabled to meet any new qualifications prescribed under paragraph (f) since the pilot’s licence or the pilotage certificate was issued.

**United States pilots and waters**

- **(2)** Where Canadian waters are contiguous with waters of the United States, an Authority may, with the approval of the Governor in Council, make regulations setting out the terms and conditions under which
	- **(a)** a pilot, or other person, authorized to have the conduct of a ship by an appropriate authority of the United States may pilot in Canadian waters; and
	- **(b)** a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate may have the conduct of a ship in waters of the United States.

**Proposed regulations to be published**

- **(3)** An Authority shall publish in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) a copy of each regulation that it proposes to make under paragraph (1)(a) or (f), and no such regulation shall be made by the Authority
	- **(a)** before the expiration of thirty days after the date of publication of the proposed regulation; or
	- **(b)** where a notice of objection is filed pursuant to subsection 21(1), before the objection is heard and an order is made by the Minister pursuant to subsection 21(4).
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 14





**Notice of objection to proposed regulation**

**21** 

- **(1)** Any person who has reason to believe that a regulation that an Authority proposes to make under paragraph 20(1)(a) or (f) is not in the public interest may file a notice of objection setting out the grounds therefor with the Minister within thirty days following publication of the proposed regulation in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) under subsection 20(3).

**Investigation**

- **(2)** Where a notice of objection is filed pursuant to subsection (1), the Minister shall appoint a person to make such investigation of the proposed regulation, including the holding of public hearings, as in the opinion of the Minister is necessary or desirable in the public interest.

**Powers of investigator**

- **(3)** A person appointed under subsection (2) shall have all the powers of a commissioner under Part I of the [Inquiries Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-11.md).

**Report**

- **(4)** On completion of a hearing under this section, the person holding the hearing shall send a report to the Minister, who may, by order, approve, amend or disapprove the proposed regulation, either in accordance with the report or otherwise, and the Authority shall make the regulation accordingly.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 14





## Licences and Certificates



**Issue of licence or pilotage certificate**

**22** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2) and any regulations made pursuant to paragraph 20(1)(j), an Authority shall,
	- **(a)** on receipt of an application in writing for a licence or pilotage certificate, and
	- **(b)** on being satisfied that the applicant therefor is able to meet the qualifications prescribed by the Governor in Council pursuant to section 52 and by the Authority pursuant to subsection 20(1),
issue a licence or pilotage certificate to the applicant, but no pilotage certificate shall be issued to an applicant therefor unless the Authority is satisfied that the applicant has a degree of skill and local knowledge of the waters of the compulsory pilotage area equivalent to that required of an applicant for a licence for that compulsory pilotage area.

**Citizenship of applicants**

- **(2)** No licence or pilotage certificate shall be issued to an applicant therefor unless the applicant is
	- **(a)** a Canadian citizen; or
	- **(b)** a permanent resident within the meaning of subsection 2(1) of the [Immigration and Refugee Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2027.md) who has not been ordinarily resident in Canada for six years or who has been ordinarily resident in Canada for six years or more and is shown, to the satisfaction of the Authority, not to have become a Canadian citizen as a result of circumstances beyond the control of the applicant.

**Term in case of issue to permanent resident**

- **(3)** Every licence or pilotage certificate issued to a permanent resident ceases to be valid five years after the date the licence is issued unless the permanent resident becomes a Canadian citizen before that date.

**Term where qualifications met**

- **(4)** A licence or pilotage certificate of any class remains in force while the licensed pilot or holder of the pilotage certificate is able to meet the qualifications prescribed by the regulations for a holder of that class of licence or pilotage certificate, including any qualifications prescribed by regulation since the licence or pilotage certificate was issued or deemed to be issued.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 22; 2001, c. 27, s. 268





**Replacement with licence or pilotage certificate of different class**

**23** Where a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate is unable to meet the qualifications prescribed by the regulations for the class to which the licence or pilotage certificate belongs, an Authority shall cancel the licence or pilotage certificate and, if the licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate is able to meet the qualifications for a licence or pilotage certificate of a different class, the Authority shall issue a licence or pilotage certificate of that different class to the licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 15




**24** [Repealed, R.S., 1985, c. 31 (1st Supp.), s. 85]




**Prohibition where pilotage compulsory**

**25** 

- **(1)** Except as provided in the regulations, no person shall have the conduct of a ship within a compulsory pilotage area unless the person is a licensed pilot or a regular member of the complement of the ship who is the holder of a pilotage certificate for that area.

**Pilot responsible to master**

- **(2)** A licensed pilot who has the conduct of a ship is responsible to the master for the safe navigation of the ship.

**When disqualified from pilotage**

- **(3)** No licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate
	- **(a)** who knows of any physical or mental disability that prevents that pilot or holder from meeting the qualifications required of a holder of a licence or pilotage certificate,
	- **(b)** whose ability is impaired by alcohol or a drug or from any other cause, or
	- **(c)** whose licence or pilotage certificate is suspended,
shall have the conduct of a ship within a compulsory pilotage area or be on duty on board ship pursuant to a regulation of an Authority requiring a ship to have a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate on board.

**Prohibition of alcohol or drug consumption**

- **(4)** No licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate shall, while on duty, consume alcohol or any drug that may impair the ability of that pilot or holder to have the conduct of the ship.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 16





**Master may relieve pilot or pilotage certificate holder**

**26** 

- **(1)** Notwithstanding any provision of this Part, where the master of a ship believes on reasonable grounds that the actions of a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate on board a ship are, in any way, endangering the safety of the ship, the master may, in the interest of the safety of the ship, take the conduct of the ship from the licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate or relieve the licensed pilot from duty on board ship.

**Master to report**

- **(2)** Where the master of a ship takes the conduct of a ship from a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate pursuant to subsection (1), the master shall file, within three days of taking the conduct of the ship, a written report setting out the master’s reasons therefor with the Authority that issued the licence or pilotage certificate.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 26; 2001, c. 26, s. 318





**Suspension of licence**

**27** 

- **(1)** The Chairperson of an Authority may suspend a licence or pilotage certificate for a period not exceeding fifteen days where the Chairperson has reason to believe that the licensed pilot or the holder of the pilotage certificate
	- **(a)** while having the conduct of a ship or being on duty on board ship pursuant to a regulation of an Authority requiring a ship to have a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate on board, contravened subsection 25(3) or (4);
	- **(b)** has reported for duty and, in the circumstances, would have been in contravention of subsection 25(3) if the licensed pilot or holder of the pilotage certificate had been on duty;
	- **(c)** has been negligent in the duty of the licensed pilot or holder of the pilotage certificate; or
	- **(d)** does not meet the qualifications required of a holder of a licence or pilotage certificate.

**Confirmation of oral suspension**

- **(2)** Where the Chairperson of an Authority suspends a licence or pilotage certificate orally, the Chairperson shall, within forty-eight hours after the suspension, confirm the suspension in writing together with the reasons therefor to the licensed pilot or holder of the pilotage certificate at the address of that pilot or holder as shown on the register kept by the Authority pursuant to section 32.

**Report to Authority**

- **(3)** Where the Chairperson of an Authority suspends a licence or pilotage certificate, the Chairperson shall, within forty-eight hours after the suspension, report the suspension to the Authority.

**Suspension or cancellation by Authority**

- **(4)** Where the Authority receives a report pursuant to subsection (3), it may
	- **(a)** approve or revoke the suspension under subsection (1);
	- **(b)** suspend the licence or pilotage certificate
		- **(i)** for a further period not exceeding one year, or
		- **(ii)** for an indefinite period until the licensed pilot or holder of the pilotage certificate shows the ability to meet the qualifications prescribed by the regulations; or
	- **(c)** cancel the licence or pilotage certificate.

**Notice to pilot**

- **(5)** No action shall be taken pursuant to paragraph (4)(b) or (c) unless, before the suspension by the Chairperson under subsection (1) terminates, the Authority gives written notice to the licensed pilot or holder of the pilotage certificate setting out the action the Authority proposes to take and the reasons therefor.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 27; 2006, c. 9, s. 294(E)





**Hearings**

**28** 

- **(1)** An Authority shall, before refusing to issue a licence or pilotage certificate or cancelling a licence or pilotage certificate pursuant to section 23, afford the applicant therefor or holder thereof or the representative of that applicant or holder a reasonable opportunity to be heard.

**Idem**

- **(2)** Where the Authority gives written notice to a licensed pilot or the holder of a pilotage certificate that it proposes to suspend the licence or pilotage certificate for a further period or to cancel the licence or pilotage certificate pursuant to subsection 27(4), the Authority shall afford the holder of the licence or pilotage certificate or the representative of the holder a reasonable opportunity to be heard before the action is taken.

**Where hearings to be public**

- **(3)** Where a hearing is to be held as provided by subsection (1) or (2) and the applicant for a licence or pilotage certificate or the holder of the licence or pilotage certificate, as the case may be, requests a public hearing or the Authority is satisfied that it would be in the public interest to hold a public hearing, the Authority shall hold a public hearing and hear all persons having an interest in the matter who wish to be heard in connection therewith.

**Powers respecting hearing**

- **(4)** The Authority has, in relation to any hearing before it, all the powers of a commissioner under Part I of the [Inquiries Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-11.md).
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 18





**Review by Minister**

**29** 

- **(1)** An applicant who is refused the issue of a licence or pilotage certificate or the holder of a licence or pilotage certificate that is suspended or cancelled pursuant to section 23, 27 or 30 may, after a hearing by an Authority under section 28, apply to the Minister for a review of the decision of the Authority.

**Powers of Minister on review**

- **(2)** Where, after considering the application made under subsection (1) and any material submitted therewith, the Minister is of the opinion that the issue of the licence or pilotage certificate should not have been refused or the licence or pilotage certificate should not have been suspended or cancelled, the Minister may direct the Authority to
	- **(a)** issue the licence or pilotage certificate;
	- **(b)** rescind the suspension or cancellation of the licence or pilotage certificate; or
	- **(c)** reduce the period of the suspension, on such conditions, if any, relating to the licence or pilotage certificate as the Minister deems proper.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 18





**Pilot ceasing to be employed or to belong to pilots’ corporation**

**30** 

- **(1)** When a licensed pilot
	- **(a)** who is an employee of an Authority ceases to be employed as a licensed pilot, or
	- **(b)** who is a member or shareholder of a body corporate referred to in subsection 15(2) ceases to be a member or shareholder of the body corporate,
the licence ceases to be valid.

**Cancellation for failure to meet qualifications**

- **(2)** An Authority shall cancel a licence or pilotage certificate when the holder of the licence or pilotage certificate does not meet the qualifications required of a holder of a licence or pilotage certificate.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 19





**Delivery up on cancellation**

**31** Where a licence or pilotage certificate is cancelled, the holder thereof shall deliver up the licence or pilotage certificate to the Authority that issued it.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 20





**Register**

**32** An Authority shall keep a register, in a manner approved by the Minister, of licensed pilots, apprentice pilots and the holders of pilotage certificates.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 21





## Tariffs



**Regulations prescribing tariffs of pilotage charges**

**33** 

- **(1)** An Authority shall, with the approval of the Governor in Council, make regulations prescribing tariffs of pilotage charges to be paid to that Authority for pilotage and, without restricting the generality of the foregoing, may fix tariffs of pilotage charges for
	- **(a)** the cancellation of a request for the service of a pilot;
	- **(b)** the carriage of a pilot on a ship beyond the area for which the service of the pilot was engaged;
	- **(c)** the detention of a pilot on board ship or otherwise;
	- **(d)** travel and other expenses incurred by a pilot that are directly associated with an assignment to pilot a ship;
	- **(e)** the use of a pilot boat;
	- **(f)** the use of telecommunication equipment; and
	- **(g)** the service of a licensed pilot on board ship pursuant to a regulation made under paragraph 20(1)(l) requiring a licensed pilot to be on board.

**Idem**

- **(2)** An Authority shall be deemed to have fixed a pilotage charge if it prescribes a manner for determining a pilotage charge.

**Requirements to be met by tariffs**

- **(3)** The tariffs of pilotage charges prescribed by an Authority under subsection (1) shall be fixed at a level that permits the Authority to operate on a self-sustaining financial basis and shall be fair and reasonable.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 33; 1998, c. 10, s. 149





**Publication**

**34** 

- **(1)** An Authority shall publish in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) a copy of each tariff of pilotage charges that it proposes to prescribe pursuant to section 33, and no tariff shall come into force before the expiration of thirty days after that publication.

**Notice of objection to Canadian Transportation Agency**

- **(2)** Any interested person who has reason to believe that any charge in a proposed tariff of pilotage charges is prejudicial to the public interest, including, without limiting the generality thereof, the public interest that is consistent with the national transportation policy set out in section 5 of the [Canada Transportation Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2010.md), may file a notice of objection setting out the grounds therefor with the Canadian Transportation Agency within thirty days after publication of the proposed tariff in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/).

**Copies to be filed**

- **(3)** On the filing of a notice of objection with the Canadian Transportation Agency, a copy thereof shall be filed with the Authority and the Minister forthwith.

**Investigation by Canadian Transportation Agency**

- **(4)** Where a notice of objection is filed pursuant to subsection (2), the Canadian Transportation Agency shall make such investigation of the proposed charge set out in the notice of objection, including the holding of public hearings, as in its opinion is necessary or desirable in the public interest.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 34; R.S., 1985, c. 28 (3rd Supp.), ss. 307, 359; 1996, c. 10, s. 251; 1998, c. 10, s. 150





**Recommendation of Agency**

**35** 

- **(1)** The Canadian Transportation Agency shall, after making the investigation, including the holding of public hearings, if any, and before the expiration of the period mentioned in subsection (2) or prescribed under subsection (3), make a recommendation to the Authority and the Authority shall govern itself accordingly.

**Time for making decisions**

- **(2)** The Agency shall make its recommendation in respect of a proposed charge set out in a notice of objection filed under subsection 34(2) as expeditiously as possible, but no later than one hundred and twenty days after receiving the objection, unless a regulation made under subsection (3) provides otherwise or the parties agree to an extension.

**Period for specified classes**

- **(3)** The Governor in Council may, by regulation, prescribe periods of less than one hundred and twenty days within which the Agency shall make its recommendation in respect of proposed charges set out in notices of objection.

**Obligation to reimburse**

- **(4)** Where the Agency recommends a charge that is lower than that prescribed by the Authority, the Authority shall reimburse to any person who has paid the prescribed charge the difference between it and the recommended charge, with interest at the rate quoted by banks to the most credit-worthy borrowers for prime business loans, as determined by the Bank of Canada for the day on which the Agency recommends the lower charge.

**Subsection 34(1) does not apply**

- **(5)** The publication requirements of subsection 34(1) do not apply in respect of pilotage charges fixed pursuant to a recommendation of the Agency.

**Copy submitted to Minister**

- **(6)** The Agency shall submit a copy of its recommendation to the Minister immediately after it is made.

**Governor in Council may vary or rescind**

- **(7)** Section 40 of the [Canada Transportation Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1996/c.%2010.md) applies, with such modifications as the circumstances require, in respect of every recommendation of the Agency under subsection (1) as if the recommendation were a decision made pursuant to that Act.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 35; R.S., 1985, c. 28 (3rd Supp.), s. 359; 1996, c. 10, s. 252; 1998, c. 10, s. 151





### Financial Provisions



**No appropriation**

**36.01** No payment to an Authority may be made under an appropriation by Parliament to enable the Authority to discharge an obligation or liability. This section applies notwithstanding any authority given under any other Act, other than an authority given under the [Emergencies Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2022%20(4th%20Supp.).md) or any other Act in respect of emergencies.
> 1998, c. 10, s. 152





**Borrowing**

**36** An Authority may, for the purpose of defraying its expenses, borrow money in Canada or elsewhere in an amount not more than the maximum fixed for the Authority by the Governor in Council.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 36; 1998, c. 10, s. 153





**Power to invest**

**37** An Authority may, with the approval of the Minister of Finance, invest any moneys not immediately required for the purposes of the Authority in any class of financial asset.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 372019, c. 29, s. 240





**Payment to Minister**

**37.1** For the purpose of defraying the costs of the administration of this Act, including the development of regulations, and the enforcement of this Act, an Authority shall, on request, pay to the Minister an amount specified by the Minister in a time and manner specified by the Minister.
> 2019, c. 29, s. 240





**Auditor**

**38** The Auditor General of Canada is the auditor of each Authority.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 27; 1976-77, c. 34, s. 26(F); 1984, c. 31, s. 14





## General



**Her Majesty or Authority not liable**

**39** Her Majesty, or an Authority, is not liable for any damage or loss occasioned by the fault, neglect, want of skill or wilful and wrongful act of a licensed pilot or a pilotage certificate holder.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 392019, c. 29, s. 243(E)





**Limitation of liability**

**40** 

- **(1)** A licensed pilot who meets the conditions of their licence is not liable in damages in excess of $1,000 for any damage or loss occasioned by their fault, neglect or want of skill.

**Idem**

- **(2)** Where a body corporate contracts with an Authority pursuant to subsection 15(2) for the services of a licensed pilot, the body corporate is not liable in damages in excess of the amount of one thousand dollars for any damage or loss occasioned by the fault, neglect or want of skill of the pilot.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 402019, c. 29, s. 244





**Liability of owner**

**41** Nothing in this Act exempts the owner or master of any ship from liability for any damage or loss occasioned by the ship to any person or property on the ground that
- **(a)** the ship was under the conduct of a licensed pilot; or
- **(b)** the damage or loss was occasioned by the fault, neglect, want of skill or wilful and wrongful act of a licensed pilot.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 41; 2001, c. 26, s. 3182019, c. 29, s. 245





**Liability for pilotage charges**

**42** The owner, master and agent of a ship are jointly and severally liable to pay any pilotage charges.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 32





**Pilotage charges payable for leading**

**43** If a ship in a compulsory pilotage area having on board a licensed pilot leads any ship subject to compulsory pilotage that does not have a licensed pilot or a pilotage certificate holder on board during any period in which the ship so led cannot, by reason of the circumstances existing at the time, be boarded, the ship so led is liable to the Authority for all pilotage charges as if a licensed pilot had been on board and piloted that ship.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 432019, c. 29, s. 246(E)





**Pilotage charge in case of proceeding without a pilot**

**44** Except where an Authority waives compulsory pilotage, a ship subject to compulsory pilotage that proceeds through a compulsory pilotage area not under the conduct of a licensed pilot or the holder of a pilotage certificate is liable, to the Authority in respect of which the region including that area is set out in the schedule, for all pilotage charges as if the ship had been under the conduct of a licensed pilot.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 34





**No clearance if pilotage charges unpaid**

**45** No customs officer at any port in Canada shall grant a clearance to a ship if the officer is informed by an Authority that pilotage charges in respect of the ship are outstanding and unpaid.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 45; R.S., 1985, c. 1 (2nd Supp.), s. 213(F)





## St. Lambert Lock



**Pilotage to and from St. Lambert Lock**

**46** 

- **(1)** Notwithstanding the boundaries of the regions set out in the schedule in respect of the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority, and the Laurentian Pilotage Authority and any compulsory pilotage areas established by those Authorities,
	- **(a)** a pilot licensed by the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority, may pilot a ship from the wait wall north of St. Lambert Lock into that Lock;
	- **(b)** a pilot licensed by the Laurentian Pilotage Authority may pilot a ship from the wait wall south of St. Lambert Lock or from within that Lock into the region set out in respect of the Laurentian Pilotage Authority in the schedule; and
	- **(c)** a pilot licensed by the Laurentian Pilotage Authority may pilot a ship either directly or from the wait wall north of St. Lambert Lock into that Lock.

**Revenue from St. Lambert Lock**

- **(2)** The Governor in Council may make regulations prescribing procedures to ensure the equitable distribution, between the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority, and the Laurentian Pilotage Authority, of the revenue received for pilotage through St. Lambert Lock.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 46; 1998, c. 10, s. 158





## Offences and Punishment



**Proceeding without a pilot**

**47** Except where an Authority waives compulsory pilotage, the owner, master or person in charge of a ship subject to compulsory pilotage that proceeds through a compulsory pilotage area not under the conduct of a licensed pilot or the holder of a pilotage certificate is guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars.
> 1970-71-72, c. 52, s. 37





**Contravention of Act or regulations**

**48** Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with
- **(a)** any provision of this Part, other than section 15.3,
- **(b)** any regulation made by the Governor in Council, or
- **(c)** any regulation of an Authority,
is guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 48; 1998, c. 10, s. 154; 2001, c. 26, s. 318; 2008, c. 21, s. 62(F)





**Contravention**

**48.1** A person who contravenes section 15.3 is guilty of an offence and liable to a fine of not more than $10,000 for each day on which the offence is committed or continued.
> 1998, c. 10, s. 155





**To whom fines paid**

**49** All fines collected pursuant to this Part, other than section 48.1, shall be paid to the Authority concerned.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 49; 1998, c. 10, s. 156; 2001, c. 26, s. 318





**Limitation period**

**50** Any proceedings may be instituted at any time within, but not later than,
- **(a)** two years, in respect of an offence under section 47, or
- **(b)** six months, in respect of any other offence under this Part,
after the time when the subject-matter of the proceedings arose.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 50; 2001, c. 26, s. 318





**Venue**

**51** Where any person is charged with an offence under this Part, any court in Canada that would have had cognizance of the offence if it had been committed by a person within the limits of its ordinary jurisdiction has jurisdiction to try the offence as if it had been so committed.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 51; 2001, c. 26, s. 318





## Regulations



**Regulations**

**52** The Governor in Council may make regulations
- **(a)** prescribing for any region or part thereof the minimum qualifications respecting navigational certificates, experience at sea and health that an applicant for a licence or pilotage certificate shall meet before it is issued to the applicant;
- **(b)** respecting the medical examinations that a licensed pilot or holder of a pilotage certificate shall undergo from time to time to determine whether that pilot or holder meets the qualifications respecting health prescribed under paragraph (a);
- **(c)** prescribing the intervals at which the medical examinations required by paragraph (b) shall be held, which intervals shall be not less than once every three years;
- **(d)** prescribing the forms of licences and pilotage certificates;
- **(e)** prescribing rules of procedure regarding the holding of hearings by an Authority; and
- **(f)** establishing compulsory pilotage areas where an Authority fails to do so and the Governor in Council considers it necessary.
> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, s. 52; R.S., 1985, c. 31 (1st Supp.), s. 86





## Review of Act



**Ten-year review**

**53** 

- **(1)** The Minister shall, 10 years after the day on which this subsection comes into force and every 10 years after that, undertake a review of the operation of this Act.

**Appointment of reviewers or assistants**

- **(2)** The Minister may appoint one or more persons to undertake or assist in the review.
> 1998, c. 10, s. 1572019, c. 29, s. 258




**54** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 258]



**55** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 258]



**56** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 258]



**57** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 258]



**58** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 258]



**59** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 258]



**60** [Repealed, 2019, c. 29, s. 258]




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 3)**
<table>
<tr>
<td>Name:</td>
<td>*Atlantic Pilotage Authority*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Head Office:</td>
<td>Halifax, Nova Scotia</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Region:</td>
<td>All Canadian waters in and around the Provinces of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland and Labrador, including the waters of Chaleur Bay in the Province of Quebec, south of Cap d’Espoir in latitude 48 degrees 25 minutes 08 seconds N., longitude 64 degrees 19 minutes 06 seconds W.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Name:</td>
<td>*Laurentian Pilotage Authority*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Head Office:</td>
<td>Montreal, Quebec</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Region:</td>
<td>All Canadian waters in and around the Province of Quebec, north of the northern entrance to St. Lambert Lock, except the waters of Chaleur Bay, south of Cap d’Espoir in latitude 48 degrees 25 minutes 08 seconds N., longitude 64 degrees 19 minutes 06 seconds W.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Name:</td>
<td>*Great Lakes Pilotage Authority*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Head Office:</td>
<td>Cornwall, Ontario</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Region:</td>
<td>All Canadian waters in the Province of Quebec, south of the northern entrance to St. Lambert Lock.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>All Canadian waters in and around the Provinces of Ontario and Manitoba.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Name:</td>
<td>*Pacific Pilotage Authority*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Head Office:</td>
<td>Vancouver, British Columbia</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Region:</td>
<td>All Canadian waters in and around the Province of British Columbia.</td>
</tr>
</table>

> R.S., 1985, c. P-14, Sch.; 1998, c. 10, s. 158; 1999, c. 31, s. 176(E); 2015, c. 3, s. 172




## RELATED PROVISIONS

######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 259


**Non-application — subsection 3(3.2)**

**259** Subsection 3(3.2) of the Pilotage Act, as enacted by section 227 of this Act, does not apply to the Chairperson or to any member of a Pilotage Authority on the day on which section 227 of this Act comes into force during the remainder of their term of appointment.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 260


**Tariff regulations**

**260** Regulations made by a Pilotage Authority with the approval of the Governor in Council under section 33 of the Pilotage Act, as that section read immediately before the day on which section 238 of this Act comes into force, remain in effect until the day on which pilotage charges established by the Pilotage Authority in accordance with sections 33 to 35 of the Pilotage Act, as enacted by section 238 of this Act, take effect.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 261


**Licences and pilotage certificates**

**261** 

- **(1)** Every licence or pilotage certificate issued by a Pilotage Authority under section 22 of the Pilotage Act, as it read immediately before the day on which section 242 of this Act comes into force, that was valid immediately before that day is deemed to have been issued, as applicable, by the Minister of Transport under subsection 38.1(1) or (2) of the Pilotage Act, as enacted by section 242 of this Act.

**Validity period**

- **(2)** Despite subsection 38.4(1) of the Pilotage Act, as enacted by section 242 of this Act, the validity period of a licence or pilotage certificate referred to in subsection (1) ends one year after the day on which section 242 of this Act comes into force.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 262


**Pending applications**

**262** An application for a licence or pilotage certificate that is pending on the day on which section 242 of this Act comes into force is deemed to be an application under subsection 38.1(1) or (2) of the Pilotage Act, as enacted by section 242 of this Act, but the qualifications to be met by the applicant are the qualifications that were prescribed by the relevant regulations as they read immediately before the day on which section 242 of this Act comes into force.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 263


**Pending hearings**

**263** Hearings pending before a Pilotage Authority immediately before the day on which section 242 of this Act comes into force are to be continued before the Authority in accordance with the Pilotage Act, as it read immediately before that day.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 264


**Fines**

**264** For greater certainty, starting on the day on which section 252 of this Act comes into force, fines collected under the Pilotage Act are no longer to be paid to the relevant Pilotage Authority.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 265


**Repeal of regulations — section 20 Pilotage Act**

**265** 

- **(1)** Beginning on the day on which section 235 of this Act comes into force, the Governor in Council may repeal regulations made under section 20 of the Pilotage Act, as that section read immediately before that day.

**Repeal of regulations — section 33 Pilotage Act**

- **(2)** Beginning on the day on which section 238 of this Act comes into force, the Governor in Council may repeal regulations made under section 33 of the Pilotage Act, as that section read immediately before that day.





## AMENDMENTS NOT IN FORCE

######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 225


**
> 2001, c. 26, s. 316
**

**225** 

- **(1)** The definition ***licence*** in section 1.1 of the Pilotage Act is replaced by the following:


***licence*** means a licence issued by the Minister under subsection 38.1(1). (*brevet*)



- **(2) and (3)** [In force]

- **(4)** The definition ***pilotage certificate*** in section 1.1 of the Act is replaced by the following:


***pilotage certificate*** means a certificate issued by the Minister under subsection 38.1(2). (*certificat de pilotage*)



- **(5)** Section 1.1 of the Act is amended by adding the following in alphabetical order:


***Agency*** means the Canadian Transportation Agency. (*Office*)

***pilotage charge*** means a charge referred to in subsection 33(1). (*redevances de pilotage*)





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 233

**233** Subparagraph 17(1)(b)(ii) of the Act is replaced by the following:

	- **(ii)** the powers of the Authority, except the power to make a by-law; and





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 235


**
> 2001, c. 27, s. 268
**

**235** Sections 20 to 23 of the Act are repealed.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 236


**
> 2001, c. 26, par. 318(b)
**

**236** Sections 25 and 26 of the Act are repealed.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 237


**
> 2006, c. 9, pars. 294(d)(E) and (e)(E)
**

**237** Sections 27 to 32 of the Act are repealed.



######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 238


**
> 1996, c. 10, s. 251(2); 1998, c. 10, ss. 149 to 151
**

**238** The heading before section 33 and sections 33 to 35 of the Act are replaced by the following:

### Charges


**Pilotage charges**

**33** 

- **(1)** An Authority may, by resolution, establish or revise charges to be paid to the Authority for services that the Authority provides or makes available in relation to compulsory pilotage, including charges for
	- **(a)** the services of a licensed pilot or apprentice pilot for a ship that is subject to compulsory pilotage;
	- **(b)** the use of a pilot boat or other conveyance;
	- **(c)** the use of communications equipment;
	- **(d)** travel and other expenses incurred by a licensed pilot or apprentice pilot that are directly associated with an assignment to pilot a ship;
	- **(e)** the carriage of a licensed pilot or apprentice pilot on a ship beyond the area for which the services of the pilot were engaged;
	- **(f)** the interruption or extension of a licensed pilot’s or apprentice pilot’s assignment on board a ship or otherwise; and
	- **(g)** the cancellation of a request for the services of a licensed pilot.

**Other charges**

- **(2)** An Authority may, by resolution, establish or revise charges to be paid to the Authority for services that the Authority provides or makes available — other than services related to compulsory pilotage — including advisory services and the use of simulators.



**Outstanding and unpaid charges**

**33.1** An Authority may charge interest on outstanding and unpaid charges.



**Charging principles**

**33.2** 

- **(1)** An Authority shall observe the following charging principles when establishing or revising pilotage charges:
	- **(a)** that pilotage charges be established and revised in accordance with an explicit methodology — that includes any conditions affecting the pilotage charges — that the Authority has established and published;
	- **(b)** that pilotage charges be structured in a way that does not encourage a user to engage in practices that diminish safety for the purpose of avoiding a charge;
	- **(c)** that pilotage charges be the same for Canadian users or ships and foreign users or ships;
	- **(d)** that pilotage charges be set at levels that allow the Authority to be financially self-sufficient and be fair and reasonable; and
	- **(e)** that pilotage charges not be set at levels that, based on reasonable and prudent projections, would generate revenues exceeding the Authority’s current and future financial requirements related to the provision of compulsory pilotage services.

**Financial requirements**

- **(2)** For the purposes of paragraph (1)(e), financial requirements include
	- **(a)** operations and maintenance costs;
	- **(b)** management and administration costs;
	- **(c)** debt servicing requirements and financial requirements arising out of contractual agreements relating to the borrowing of money;
	- **(d)** capital costs and depreciation costs on capital assets;
	- **(e)** financial requirements necessary for the Authority to maintain an appropriate credit rating;
	- **(f)** tax liability;
	- **(g)** payments to the Minister for the purpose of defraying the costs of the administration of this Act, including the development of regulations, and the enforcement of this Act;
	- **(h)** reasonable reserves for future expenditures and contingencies; and
	- **(i)** other costs determined in accordance with accounting principles recommended by the Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada or its successor or assign.



**Notice of proposal**

**33.3** 

- **(1)** An Authority shall publish on its website a notice of any proposal to establish or revise a pilotage charge.

**Contents of notice**

- **(2)** The notice is to
	- **(a)** describe the proposal, including by setting out the Authority’s reasons for establishing or revising the pilotage charge and the circumstances in which the charge would apply;
	- **(b)** indicate that any person may make representations about the proposal to the Authority, in writing, on or before the date set out in the notice, which date is not to be earlier than 30 days after the day on which the notice is published;
	- **(c)** indicate that any person making written representations is to include a summary of those representations and that the summary may be made public by the Authority; and
	- **(d)** indicate that any person making written representations by the date set out in the notice will have an opportunity to file with the Agency a notice of objection related to the proposal.

**Changes to proposal**

- **(3)** If, after publication of the notice and consideration of the written representations, the Authority elects to modify the proposal, other than by reducing the proposed amount of the pilotage charge, the Authority shall publish on its website a new notice with the content referred to in subsection (2), a description of the changes to the proposal and the reasons for them.



**Announcement of decision**

**33.4** 

- **(1)** After considering all written representations referred to in paragraph 33.3(2)(b), the Authority shall publish on its website an announcement that sets out its decision in respect of the proposal.

**Contents of announcement**

- **(2)** Unless the Authority decides to abandon the proposal, the announcement is to
	- **(a)** set out the reasons for the decision;
	- **(b)** describe the pilotage charge and the circumstances in which it will apply, including the date on which it will take effect, which date is not to be earlier than 60 days after the day on which the announcement is published;
	- **(c)** provide a summary of the written representations referred to in paragraph 33.3(2)(b) and of the Authority’s analysis of any issues and concerns brought to its attention in the representations, including how it considered these issues and concerns in its decision; and
	- **(d)** indicate that a person may file with the Agency a notice of objection related to the decision to establish or revise a pilotage charge, the grounds for filing a notice of objection and how to file it.



**Notice of objection**

**34** 

- **(1)** A person may, within 90 days after the day on which the announcement referred to in section 33.4 is published, file with the Agency a notice of objection, in the form and manner determined by the Agency, related to the decision to establish or revise a pilotage charge.

**Delay in case of failure to publish**

- **(2)** If the Authority establishes or revises a pilotage charge without publishing a notice referred to in section 33.3 or an announcement referred to in section 33.4, the notice of objection may be filed within 90 days after the day on which the new or revised pilotage charge comes into effect.

**Grounds for filing notice**

- **(3)** A notice of objection may be filed only if
	- **(a)** the pilotage charge was not established or revised in accordance with the charging principles referred to in subsection 33.2(1); or
	- **(b)** the Authority did not comply with the requirements set out in section 33.3 or 33.4.

**Effect of notice**

- **(4)** A pilotage charge is not suspended or prevented from taking effect by reason of a notice of objection and, until the Agency disposes of the objections set out in the notice, the Agency shall not make an order suspending the pilotage charge or preventing it from taking effect.



**Orders of Agency**

**35** 

- **(1)** If the Agency determines that an objection set out in a notice of objection under section 34 is well founded, it may order the Authority to
	- **(a)** cancel the establishment or revision of the pilotage charge in question;
	- **(b)** reinstate any pilotage charge that was in effect immediately before the pilotage charge in question took effect;
	- **(c)** refund to each user of compulsory pilotage services the amount they paid on account of the pilotage charge the establishment of which is cancelled under paragraph (a) or the amount they paid in excess of the pilotage charge reinstated under paragraph (b);
	- **(d)** in a case in which the Authority did not comply with the requirements set out in section 33.3 or 33.4, suspend the establishment or revision of the pilotage charge in question until the Authority has taken the measures set out in the order; or
	- **(e)** take any other appropriate measures.

**Refund**

- **(2)** If under paragraph (1)(c) the Agency orders the Authority to make a refund to a user of compulsory pilotage services,
	- **(a)** the Agency shall allow the person who filed the notice of objection and the Authority to make representations to the Agency before fixing the period within which the refund is to be made; and
	- **(b)** the Authority may make the refund to the user by making a repayment or issuing a credit, but any remaining credit is to be repaid to the user within the period fixed by the Agency.

**Interest on amount of refund**

- **(3)** If the Agency orders the Authority to make a refund to a user under paragraph (1)(c), the amount of the refund is to include interest at the interest rate charged by banks to their most credit-worthy borrowers for short-term business loans, as determined and published by the Bank of Canada for the month in which the order is made.

**Reasons**

- **(4)** The Agency shall provide the person who filed the notice of objection and the Authority with written reasons for any decision made under subsection (1) and, if applicable, any decision to fix the period within which the Authority is to make a refund to a user of compulsory pilotage services.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 241

**241** The Act is amended by adding the following after section 38:

## Conduct of Ship Subject to Compulsory Pilotage


**Prohibition where pilotage compulsory**

**38.01** 

- **(1)** No individual shall have the conduct of a ship within a compulsory pilotage area unless they are a licensed pilot for that compulsory pilotage area or a regular member of the ship’s complement who is a pilotage certificate holder for that compulsory pilotage area.

**Non-application**

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply if
	- **(a)** the master of the ship takes the conduct of it in accordance with subsection 38.02(1);
	- **(b)** the relevant Authority waives compulsory pilotage; or
	- **(c)** the ship is in Canadian waters that are contiguous with waters of the United States, the ship is under the conduct of an individual who is authorized to have the conduct of a ship by an appropriate authority of the United States and the conditions set out in the regulations are met.

**Pilot responsible to master**

- **(3)** A licensed pilot or pilotage certificate holder who has the conduct of a ship is responsible to the master for the safe navigation of the ship.

**When disqualified from pilotage**

- **(4)** No licensed pilot or pilotage certificate holder shall have the conduct of a ship within a compulsory pilotage area or be on duty on board a ship under a regulation requiring a ship to have a licensed pilot or a pilotage certificate holder on board if
	- **(a)** they know of any physical or mental disability that prevents them from meeting the qualifications required for their licence or pilotage certificate;
	- **(b)** their ability is impaired by alcohol or a drug or from any other cause; or
	- **(c)** their licence or pilotage certificate is suspended.

**Prohibition — alcohol or drug consumption**

- **(5)** No licensed pilot or pilotage certificate holder shall, while on duty, consume alcohol or any drug that may impair the ability of that pilot or holder to have the conduct of the ship.



**Power to take conduct of ship**

**38.02** 

- **(1)** If the master of a ship believes on reasonable grounds that the actions of a licensed pilot or a pilotage certificate holder on board a ship are, in any way, endangering the safety of the ship, the master may, in the interest of the safety of the ship, take the conduct of the ship in place of the licensed pilot or pilotage certificate holder or relieve the licensed pilot from duty on board ship.

**Master to report**

- **(2)** The master of a ship who takes the conduct of it in accordance with subsection (1) shall, within three days of taking the conduct of it, file a written report with the Minister that sets out the master’s reasons for doing so.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 242

**242** The Act is amended by adding the following after section 38.02:

## Licences and Pilotage Certificates


**Issue of licence**

**38.1** 

- **(1)** The Minister shall issue a licence for a compulsory pilotage area to an individual who applies in writing if the Minister is satisfied that the applicant meets the qualifications provided for in the regulations.

**Issue of pilotage certificate**

- **(2)** The Minister shall issue a pilotage certificate for a compulsory pilotage area to an individual who applies in writing if the Minister is satisfied that the applicant
	- **(a)** meets the qualifications provided for in the regulations; and
	- **(b)** has a degree of skill and local knowledge of the waters of the compulsory pilotage area that is similar to that required of an applicant for a licence for that compulsory pilotage area.

**Citizenship**

- **(3)** To be eligible for a licence or pilotage certificate, the applicant shall be
	- **(a)** a Canadian citizen; or
	- **(b)** a permanent resident within the meaning of subsection 2(1) of the [Immigration and Refugee Protection Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2027.md) who has not been ordinarily resident in Canada for six years or who has been ordinarily resident in Canada for six years or more and is shown, to the satisfaction of the Minister, not to have become a Canadian citizen as a result of circumstances beyond the control of the applicant.



**Refusal to issue**

**38.2** 

- **(1)** The Minister may refuse to issue a licence or pilotage certificate if
	- **(a)** the applicant has acted fraudulently or improperly or has misrepresented a material fact;
	- **(b)** the Minister is of the opinion that the public interest and, in particular, the record of the applicant warrant it; or
	- **(c)** the applicant has not paid a fee for services related to the licence or pilotage certificate or has not paid a fine or penalty imposed on them under this Act.

**Notice after refusal to issue**

- **(2)** The Minister shall, immediately after refusing to issue a licence or pilotage certificate, give the applicant a notice confirming the refusal and setting out the grounds on which the Minister has refused to issue the licence or pilotage certificate.



**Request for review**

**38.3** 

- **(1)** An applicant who receives a notice under subsection 38.2(2) may, on or before the date specified in the notice or within any further time that the Tribunal on application allows, file a written request for a review of the decision.

**Date, time and place for review**

- **(2)** On receipt of the request, the Tribunal shall appoint a date, time and place for the review and shall notify the Minister and the applicant of the date, time and place in writing.

**Review procedure**

- **(3)** The member of the Tribunal assigned to conduct the review shall provide the Minister and the applicant with an opportunity consistent with procedural fairness and natural justice to present evidence and make representations.

**Determination**

- **(4)** The member may confirm the Minister’s decision or refer the matter back to the Minister for reconsideration.



**Validity period**

**38.4** 

- **(1)** A licence or pilotage certificate is valid for the period specified by the Minister.

**Possession of licence or pilotage certificate**

- **(2)** No person other than the individual to whom it was issued shall possess a licence or pilotage certificate.



**Production of licence or pilotage certificate**

**38.5** Every licensed pilot or pilotage certificate holder shall produce their licence or pilotage certificate to the Minister on request.



**Lost licence or pilotage certificate**

**38.6** The Minister may issue a replacement for a mislaid, lost or destroyed licence or pilotage certificate if the individual to whom it was issued applies in the form and manner specified by the Minister and provides the information and the documents specified by the Minister.



**Suspension, cancellation or refusal to renew**

**38.7** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 38.8, the Minister may suspend, cancel or refuse to renew a licence or pilotage certificate if the Minister is satisfied that
	- **(a)** the individual to whom it was issued no longer meets the qualifications provided for in the regulations for the issuance of the licence or pilotage certificate;
	- **(b)** in the case of a pilotage certificate, the individual to whom it was issued no longer has a degree of skill and local knowledge of the waters of the compulsory pilotage area that is similar to that required of an applicant for a licence for that compulsory pilotage area;
	- **(c)** a condition attached to the licence or pilotage certificate has been contravened;
	- **(d)** the licence or pilotage certificate was obtained by fraudulent or improper means or a misrepresentation of a material fact;
	- **(e)** the individual to whom it was issued has not paid a fine or penalty imposed on them under this Act;
	- **(f)** the individual to whom it was issued has contravened a provision of this Act or the regulations; or
	- **(g)** in the case of a refusal to renew,
		- **(i)** the applicant has not paid a fee for services related to the licence or pilotage certificate, or
		- **(ii)** the Minister is of the opinion that the public interest and, in particular, the record of the applicant warrant it.

**Return of licence or pilotage certificate**

- **(2)** If a licence or pilotage certificate is suspended or cancelled, the individual to whom it was issued shall return it, as soon as possible, to the Minister.



**Notice before decision**

**38.8** The Minister shall, before suspending or cancelling a licence or pilotage certificate, give the individual to whom it was issued 30 days’ notice of the proposed suspension or cancellation. The notice is to set out the grounds on which the Minister proposes to suspend or cancel the licence or pilotage certificate.



**Exception**

**38.81** 

- **(1)** The Minister may suspend or cancel a licence or pilotage certificate without complying with section 38.8 if, on *ex parte* application by the Minister, the Tribunal determines that compliance with that section is not in the interest of public safety.

**Decision within 24 hours**

- **(2)** The Minister’s application is to be heard by a member of the Tribunal, sitting alone, whose determination is to be made within 24 hours after the application is filed with the Tribunal.

**Appeal**

- **(3)** The Minister may, within 24 hours after the determination, appeal the determination to the Tribunal.

**Decision within 48 hours**

- **(4)** The appeal panel of the Tribunal assigned to hear the appeal shall make a decision within 48 hours after the appeal is filed with the Tribunal.



**Notice after decision**

**38.82** Except if a notice is given under section 38.8, the Minister shall, immediately after suspending, cancelling or refusing to renew a licence or pilotage certificate, give the individual to whom it was issued a notice that confirms the suspension, cancellation or refusal and that sets out the grounds on which the Minister suspended, cancelled or refused to renew the licence or pilotage certificate.



**Request for review**

**38.83** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the individual who is referred to in a notice under section 38.8 or 38.82 may, on or before the date specified in the notice or within any further time that the Tribunal on application allows, file a written request for a review of the decision referred to in the notice.

**Exception**

- **(2)** The request is not to be filed with, or accepted by, the Tribunal if the grounds for suspending, cancelling or refusing to renew the licence or pilotage certificate are set out in paragraph 38.7(1)(e) or subparagraph 38.7(1)(g)(i).

**Effect of request**

- **(3)** The filing of a request for a review in respect of a notice under section 38.8 operates as a stay of the proposed suspension or cancellation until the matter is finally disposed of in accordance with this section or section 38.84.

**Date, time and place for review**

- **(4)** On receipt of the request, the Tribunal shall appoint a date, time and place for the review and shall notify the Minister and the individual of the date, time and place in writing.

**Review procedure**

- **(5)** The member of the Tribunal assigned to conduct the review shall provide the Minister and the individual with an opportunity consistent with procedural fairness and natural justice to present evidence and make representations.

**Individual not compelled to testify**

- **(6)** In a review of a decision made under paragraph 38.7(1)(f), the individual is not required, and is not to be compelled, to give any evidence or testimony in the matter.

**Determination**

- **(7)** The member may confirm the Minister’s decision or refer the matter back to the Minister for reconsideration.



**Right of appeal**

**38.84** 

- **(1)** Both the Minister and the individual may appeal to the Tribunal a determination made under subsection 38.3(4) or 38.83(7). The time limit for making an appeal is 30 days after the determination.

**Loss of right of appeal**

- **(2)** A party that does not appear at a review hearing is not entitled to appeal a determination, unless they establish that there was sufficient reason to justify their absence.

**Disposition of appeal**

- **(3)** The appeal panel of the Tribunal that is assigned to hear the appeal may dismiss the appeal or refer the matter back to the Minister for reconsideration.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 247

**247** Section 44 of the Act is replaced by the following:

**Pilotage charge — proceeding without pilot**

**44** Unless the relevant Authority waives compulsory pilotage, a ship that is subject to compulsory pilotage and proceeds through a compulsory pilotage area while not under the conduct of a licensed pilot or a pilotage certificate holder is liable to that Authority for all pilotage charges as if the ship had been under the conduct of a licensed pilot.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 248


**
> R.S., c. 1 (2nd Supp.), s. 213(2) (Sch. II, item 7)(F)
**

**248** Section 45 of the French version of the Act is replaced by the following:

**Redevances exigibles et impayées**

**45** Il est interdit à l’agent des douanes qui est de service dans un port canadien de donner congé à un navire s’il est informé par une Administration que des redevances de pilotage concernant le navire sont exigibles et impayées.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 249

**249** The Act is amended by adding the following after section 45:

**[Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md) documents**

**45.1** 

- **(1)** The Minister may suspend, cancel or refuse to issue or renew any document — including a certificate, licence or permit — under the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md), if the applicant or the holder of the document
	- **(a)** has contravened a direction given under subsection 46.12(3) or (4); or
	- **(b)** has not paid a fine or penalty imposed on them under this Act.

**Corporation**

- **(2)** If the applicant or the holder of the document referred to in subsection (1) is a corporation, the Minister may take the measures referred to in that subsection if a director, officer or agent or mandatary of the corporation
	- **(a)** has contravened a direction given under subsection 46.12(3) or (4); or
	- **(b)** has not paid a fine or penalty imposed on them under this Act.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 250


**
> 1998, c. 10, par. 158(a)
**

**250** Subsection 46(1) of the Act is replaced by the following:

**Pilotage to and from St. Lambert Lock**

**46** 

- **(1)** Despite the boundaries of the regions set out in the schedule in respect of the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority and the Laurentian Pilotage Authority, and despite the boundaries of any compulsory pilotage area,
	- **(a)** a pilot licensed for a compulsory pilotage area that is in the region of the Great Lakes Pilotage Authority and that is specified in the regulations may pilot a ship from the wait wall north of St. Lambert Lock into that Lock;
	- **(b)** a pilot licensed for a compulsory pilotage area that is in the region of the Laurentian Pilotage Authority and that is specified in the regulations may pilot a ship from the wait wall south of St. Lambert Lock or from within that Lock into the region set out in respect of the Laurentian Pilotage Authority in the schedule; and
	- **(c)** a pilot licensed for a compulsory pilotage area that is in the region of the Laurentian Pilotage Authority and that is specified in the regulations may pilot a ship either directly or from the wait wall north of St. Lambert Lock into that Lock.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 251

**251** The Act is amended by adding the following after section 46:

## Electronic Administration and Enforcement


**Powers**

**46.01** 

- **(1)** The Minister may administer and enforce this Act using electronic means.

**Authorized persons**

- **(2)** For greater certainty, any person or class of persons who are designated under section 46.1 as authorized persons may, in the exercise of their powers or the performance of their duties and functions, use the electronic means that are made available or specified by the Minister.

**Delegation**

- **(3)** For greater certainty, a person who has been authorized by the Minister to do anything that may be done by the Minister under this Act may do so using the electronic means that are made available or specified by the Minister.

**Decision by automated system**

- **(4)** For greater certainty, an electronic system, including an automated system, may be used by the Minister to make a decision under this Act, and may be used by an authorized person to make a decision under this Act if the system is made available to the authorized person by the Minister.



**Conditions for electronic version**

**46.02** If this Act requires a signature to be provided, an application, request or decision to be made, notice to be given, information to be provided or a document to be submitted in its original form, the electronic version of the signature, application, request or decision, notice, information or document meets the requirement if
- **(a)** the electronic version is provided by the electronic means, including an electronic system, that are made available or specified by the Minister; and
- **(b)** any other requirements that may be provided for in the regulations have been met.



**Regulations**

**46.03** 

- **(1)** The Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the application of section 46.01 and paragraph 46.02(b), including regulations respecting
	- **(a)** the technology or format to be used, or the standards, specifications or processes to be followed, including for the making or verifying of an electronic signature and the manner in which it is to be used; and
	- **(b)** the date and time when, and the place where, an electronic version of an application, request, decision, document, notice or any information is deemed to be sent or received.

**Requirement to use electronic means**

- **(2)** The regulations may require a person or ship that makes an application or request, gives notice, submits any document or provides information under this Act to do so using electronic means, including an electronic system. The regulations may also include provisions respecting those means, including that system, respecting the circumstances in which that application or request may be made, the notice may be given, the document may be submitted or the information may be provided by other means, and respecting those other means.

**Minister’s power**

- **(3)** The regulations may prescribe the circumstances in which the Minister may require a person or ship that makes an application or request, gives notice, submits any document or provides information under this Act to do so using any means that are specified by the Minister.

**Electronic payments**

- **(4)** The regulations may
	- **(a)** require that payments that are to be made or evidence of payment that are to be provided under this Act are to be made or provided by means of an electronic system;
	- **(b)** include provisions respecting such a system, respecting the circumstances in which those payments may be made or evidence of payments may be provided by other means, and respecting those other means; and
	- **(c)** include provisions respecting the date and time when, and the place where, an electronic payment or evidence of payment is deemed to be sent or received.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 252

**252** The Act is amended by adding the following after section 46:

## Enforcement


### Designation of Authorized Persons


**Designation by Minister**

**46.1** The Minister may designate persons or classes of persons as authorized persons for the purposes of the administration and enforcement of this Act and may limit in any manner that he or she considers appropriate the powers that the authorized persons may exercise under this Act.



**Certificate of designation**

**46.11** The Minister shall provide every authorized person with a certificate of their designation and, if the authorized person’s powers are limited under section 46.1, the certificate is to specify the powers that the authorized person may exercise.



### Compliance Measures


**Authority to enter**

**46.12** 

- **(1)** An authorized person may, for a purpose related to verifying compliance or preventing non-compliance with this Act, enter a place, including a ship, in which the authorized person has reasonable grounds to believe that
	- **(a)** there is anything to which this Act applies;
	- **(b)** there has been carried on, is being carried on or is likely to be carried on any activity in respect of which this Act applies; or
	- **(c)** there is any book, record, electronic data or other document relating to the application of this Act.

**Powers on entry**

- **(2)** The authorized person may, for that purpose,
	- **(a)** examine the place and anything in the place;
	- **(b)** use any means of communication or cause it to be used;
	- **(c)** use any computer system or data processing system, or cause it to be used, to examine data contained in or available to it;
	- **(d)** prepare or cause to be prepared any document, in the form of a printout or other intelligible output, from the data;
	- **(e)** direct any person to produce for inspection, or for the purposes of making copies or taking extracts, any document;
	- **(f)** use any copying equipment or cause it to be used;
	- **(g)** conduct tests or analyses;
	- **(h)** take measurements or samples;
	- **(i)** take photographs or make recordings or sketches;
	- **(j)** remove anything for the purposes of examination, testing or copying;
	- **(k)** direct any person to put anything into operation or to cease operating it;
	- **(l)** prohibit or limit access to all or part of the place or to anything in the place; and
	- **(m)** direct any person to establish their identity to the authorized person’s satisfaction.

**Powers — direction to provide information**

- **(3)** An authorized person may, for a purpose related to verifying compliance or preventing non-compliance with this Act,
	- **(a)** direct any person to provide any information; and
	- **(b)** direct a ship, if it is about to enter or is within Canadian waters, to provide any information.

**Powers — direction to ship**

- **(4)** If an authorized person has reasonable grounds to believe that an offence under this Act has been committed, they may direct a ship that is about to enter or is within Canadian waters
	- **(a)** to stop;
	- **(b)** to proceed through those waters, or to proceed to the place within those waters that they may specify, by the route and in the manner that they may specify, and to moor, anchor or remain there for any reasonable period that they may specify;
	- **(c)** to proceed out of those waters by the route and in the manner that they may specify; or
	- **(d)** to remain outside those waters.



**Dwelling house or living quarters**

**46.13** 

- **(1)** An authorized person shall not enter a dwelling house or living quarters under subsection 46.12(1) without the consent of the occupant except under the authority of a warrant issued under subsection (2), unless the authorized person has reasonable grounds to believe that the dwelling house or living quarters are not being lived in.

**Authority to issue warrant**

- **(2)** On *ex parte* application, a justice of the peace may issue a warrant authorizing an authorized person to enter a dwelling house or living quarters, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the warrant, if the justice is satisfied by information on oath that
	- **(a)** the dwelling house or living quarters are a place referred to in subsection 46.12(1);
	- **(b)** entry to the dwelling house or living quarters is necessary for a purpose related to verifying compliance or preventing non-compliance with this Act; and
	- **(c)** entry was refused by the occupant or there are reasonable grounds to believe that entry will be refused by, or that consent to entry cannot be obtained from, the occupant.

**Use of force**

- **(3)** In executing a warrant to enter a dwelling house or living quarters, an authorized person may use force only if the use of force has been specifically authorized in the warrant and they are accompanied by a peace officer.

**Telewarrant**

- **(4)** If an authorized person believes that it would not be practicable to appear personally to make an application for a warrant under subsection (2), a warrant may be issued by telephone or other means of telecommunication on information submitted by telephone or other means of telecommunication, and section 487.1 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) applies for that purpose, with any necessary modifications.



**Disposition of sample**

**46.14** 

- **(1)** An authorized person who takes a sample under paragraph 46.12(2)(h) may dispose of it in any manner that they consider appropriate or may submit it for analysis or examination to any person the Minister considers appropriate.

**Certificate or report**

- **(2)** A person that has made an analysis or examination under subsection (1) may issue a certificate or report that sets out the results of the analysis or examination.

**Certificate or report admissible in evidence**

- **(3)** Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the certificate or report is admissible in evidence in any proceeding related to a contravention of this Act and, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, is proof of the statements contained in it without proof of the signature or official character of the person appearing to have signed it.

**Attendance of person**

- **(4)** The party against which the certificate or report is produced may, with leave of the court or of the Tribunal, require for the purposes of cross-examination the attendance of the person that issued it.

**Notice**

- **(5)** The certificate or report may be admitted in evidence only if the party that intends to produce it has given to the party against which it is intended to be produced reasonable notice of that intention, together with a copy of the certificate or report.



**Return of anything removed**

**46.15** 

- **(1)** Anything removed under paragraph 46.12(2)(j) is to be returned as soon as feasible after it is no longer required for the purpose for which it was taken unless
	- **(a)** the thing, in the authorized person’s opinion, is no longer useful; or
	- **(b)** the owner is unknown or cannot be located.

**Thing not returned**

- **(2)** An authorized person may dispose of anything that is not returned under subsection (1) in the manner that they consider appropriate, and any proceeds realized from the disposition are to be paid to the Receiver General.



**Interference**

**46.16** Unless authorized by an authorized person, it is prohibited for a person to knowingly move, alter or interfere in any way with a sample taken under paragraph 46.12(2)(h) or anything removed under paragraph 46.12(2)(j).



**Seizure**

**46.17** For the purpose referred to in subsection 46.12(1), an authorized person may seize and detain anything
- **(a)** by means of which or in relation to which they have reasonable grounds to believe that any provision of this Act or of the regulations has been contravened; or
- **(b)** that they have reasonable grounds to believe will afford evidence in respect of a contravention of any provision of this Act or of the regulations.



**Custody of thing seized**

**46.18** If an authorized person seizes a thing, the authorized person, or any person that they may designate, shall retain custody of the thing, subject to any order made under section 490 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md).



**Liability for costs and expenses**

**46.19** If there is more than one owner of a thing seized or forfeited under this Act, the owners are jointly and severally, or solidarily, liable for the amount due or payable in respect of the costs and expenses resulting from the seizure, forfeiture or disposition of the thing in excess of any proceeds of disposition of the thing that have been forfeited to Her Majesty in right of Canada under this Act.



**Detention order**

**46.2** 

- **(1)** An authorized person may order the detention of a ship if the authorized person has reasonable grounds to believe that an offence under this Act has been committed by or in respect of the ship.

**Order in writing**

- **(2)** The detention order is to be in writing and be addressed to every person empowered to grant clearance to the ship.

**Service of detention order notice**

- **(3)** Subject to subsection (4), notice of a detention order is to be served
	- **(a)** by delivering a copy of the notice to the authorized representative of the ship or, in the absence of an authorized representative, a person in charge of the ship; or
	- **(b)** if service cannot reasonably be effected in the manner provided in paragraph (a), by posting a copy of the notice on any conspicuous part of the ship.

**Public notice of detention order**

- **(4)** If service cannot reasonably be effected in the manner provided in paragraph (3)(a) or (b), public notice of the detention order is to be given.

**Contents of notice**

- **(5)** The notice is to indicate
	- **(a)** the measures that are to be taken for the detention order to be rescinded; and
	- **(b)** the amount and form of any security that is to be deposited with the Minister.

**Notification of foreign state**

- **(6)** If the ship that is subject to a detention order is registered in a foreign state, that state is to be notified that the order was made.

**Movement of ship prohibited**

- **(7)** Subject to subsection 46.22(1), it is prohibited for a person to move a ship that is subject to a detention order.

**Granting clearance prohibited**

- **(8)** It is prohibited for a person to which a detention order is addressed, after they have received notice of the order, to grant clearance to the ship that is subject to the order, unless they have been notified that the order has been rescinded.

**Rescission of order**

- **(9)** An authorized person may rescind a detention order if, in their opinion, it would be in the public interest to do so. However, an authorized person shall rescind a detention order if they are satisfied that the measures indicated in the notice referred to in subsection (5) have been taken and, if applicable, security in the amount and form indicated in the notice has been deposited with the Minister.

**Notice of rescission**

- **(10)** An authorized person who rescinds a detention order shall notify, in the form and manner specified by the Minister, the persons referred to in subsection (2) and the persons on which the notice was served under paragraph (3)(a) of the rescission.

**Liability for costs and expenses**

- **(11)** The authorized representative of a ship that is subject to a detention order or, in the absence of an authorized representative, the owner of that ship is liable for all costs and expenses resulting from the detention.

**Return of security**

- **(12)** If, in the Minister’s opinion, the matter has been resolved, the Minister
	- **(a)** may apply the security to reimburse Her Majesty in right of Canada, in whole or in part, for any of the costs and expenses resulting from the detention of the ship or to pay to Her Majesty in right of Canada, in whole or in part, any fine or penalty imposed under this Act; and
	- **(b)** shall return the security, or any part of it that remains if it is applied under paragraph (a), if all costs and expenses and any fine or penalty imposed under this Act have been paid.



**Interference with service of notice**

**46.21** It is prohibited for a person to knowingly interfere with the service of a notice of a detention order.



**Permission or direction to move ship**

**46.22** 

- **(1)** The Minister may, in respect of a ship that is subject to a detention order,
	- **(a)** on application made by the authorized representative of the ship or, in the absence of an authorized representative, the person in charge of the ship, permit the ship to be moved in accordance with the Minister’s directions; and
	- **(b)** on application made by the owner of a dock — or by the person in charge of a place — at which the detained ship is situated, direct the authorized representative or person in charge of the ship to move it in accordance with the Minister’s directions.

**Non-compliance with paragraph (1)(b)**

- **(2)** If a person does not comply with a direction given to them under paragraph (1)(b) and the Minister is satisfied that the applicant for the direction has sufficient insurance in place to cover any incident that may arise from the moving of the ship, the Minister may authorize the applicant to move the ship in accordance with the Minister’s directions and at the expense of the authorized representative or, in the absence of an authorized representative, the owner.



### Provisions Related to Entry


**Accompanying person**

**46.23** 

- **(1)** If an authorized person enters a place under subsection 46.12(1), they may be accompanied by any other person whom they believe is necessary to help them in the exercise of their powers or the performance of their duties or functions under this Act.

**Entry on private property**

- **(2)** An authorized person and a person accompanying them may enter private property – other than a dwelling house or living quarters – and pass through it, including with vehicles and equipment, in order to gain entry to the place referred to in subsection 46.12(1).



**Duty to assist**

**46.24** The owner of a place that is entered by an authorized person under subsection 46.12(1), the person in charge of the place and every person in it shall give all assistance to the authorized person that is reasonably required to enable the authorized person to exercise their powers or perform their duties or functions under this Act and shall provide the authorized person with any document or information, or access to any data, that they may reasonably require.



### Obstruction


**Obstruction**

**46.25** It is prohibited for a person to knowingly give false or misleading information either orally or in writing to, or otherwise knowingly obstruct or hinder, an authorized person who is exercising powers or performing duties or functions under this Act.



### Administrative Monetary Penalties


**Violation — person**

**46.26** 

- **(1)** Every person that contravenes a provision or direction that is designated as a violation in the regulations commits a violation and is liable to a penalty.

**Violation — ship**

- **(2)** Every ship that contravenes any of the following commits a violation and is liable to a penalty:
	- **(a)** a direction given under paragraph 46.12(3)(b) or subsection 46.12(4); or
	- **(b)** a provision the contravention of which is designated as a violation by the regulations.

**Continuing violation**

- **(3)** A violation that is committed or continued on more than one day constitutes a separate violation for each day on which it is committed or continued.

**Penalty**

- **(4)** The maximum amount payable as the penalty for a violation set out in subsection (1) or (2) is $250,000 and the total maximum amount payable for a related series or class of violations is the amount set out in the regulations.

**Purpose of penalty**

- **(5)** The purpose of the penalty is to promote compliance with this Act and not to punish.

**Clarification**

- **(6)** If a contravention of a provision may be proceeded with as a violation or as an offence, proceeding with it in one manner precludes proceeding with it in the other.

**Nature of violation**

- **(7)** For greater certainty, a violation is not an offence and, accordingly, section 126 of the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md) does not apply in respect of a violation.

**Due diligence defence — person**

- **(8)** A person is not to be found to be liable for a violation under this Act if they establish that they exercised due diligence to prevent its commission.

**Due diligence defence — ship**

- **(9)** A ship is not to be found to be liable for a violation under this Act if the person that committed the act or omission that constitutes the violation establishes that they exercised due diligence to prevent its commission.



**Assurance of compliance or notice of violation**

**46.27** 

- **(1)** If the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe that a person or ship has committed a violation, the Minister may
	- **(a)** enter into an assurance of compliance with the person or ship that
		- **(i)** identifies the violation and provides that the person or ship will comply with the provision to which the violation relates within the period, and be subject to the conditions, specified in the assurance,
		- **(ii)** sets out the amount and form of any security that, pending compliance with the assurance, is to be deposited with the Minister, and
		- **(iii)** sets out the amount of the penalty that the person or ship would have been liable to pay for the violation if the assurance had not been entered into; or
	- **(b)** issue, and cause to be served on the person or ship, a notice of violation that names the person or ship, identifies the violation and sets out
		- **(i)** the amount of the penalty that the person or ship is liable to pay for the violation,
		- **(ii)** the period, being 30 days after the day on which the notice is served, within which the penalty is to be paid or a review is to be requested, and
		- **(iii)** particulars of the manner in which, and the place at which, the penalty is to be paid or a review is to be requested.

**Extension of period**

- **(2)** The Minister may extend the period specified under subparagraph (1)(a)(i) if the Minister is satisfied that the person or ship is unable to comply with the assurance of compliance for reasons beyond the person’s or ship’s control.

**Short-form description**

- **(3)** The Minister may establish, in respect of each violation, a short-form description to be used in notices of violation.



**Deemed violation**

**46.28** 

- **(1)** A person or ship that enters into an assurance of compliance under paragraph 46.27(1)(a) is, unless a review is requested under subsection (2), deemed to have committed the violation in respect of which the assurance was entered into.

**Request for review**

- **(2)** A person or ship that enters into an assurance of compliance may, within 48 hours after the assurance is signed, unless a notice of default is served within that period under subsection 46.3(1), file a request with the Tribunal for a review of the facts of the violation, in which case the assurance is deemed to be a notice of violation and a review under paragraph 46.33(1)(b) of the facts of the violation and of the amount of the penalty is deemed to have been requested.



**When assurance of compliance complied with**

**46.29** If the Minister is of the opinion that a person or ship that has entered into an assurance of compliance under paragraph 46.27(1)(a) has complied with it, he or she shall cause a notice to that effect to be served on the person or ship and, on the service of the notice,
- **(a)** no further proceedings may be taken against the person or ship with respect to the violation in respect of which the assurance was entered into; and
- **(b)** any security deposited under subparagraph 46.27(1)(a)(ii) is to be returned to the person or ship.



**When assurance of compliance not complied with**

**46.3** 

- **(1)** If the Minister is of the opinion that a person or ship that has entered into an assurance of compliance under paragraph 46.27(1)(a) has not complied with it, the Minister may cause a notice of default to be served on the person or ship to the effect that, unless a member determines under section 46.31, or an appeal panel decides under section 46.34, that the assurance has been complied with,
	- **(a)** the person or ship is liable to pay double the amount of the penalty set out in the assurance; or
	- **(b)** the security deposited under subparagraph 46.27(1)(a)(ii) is forfeited to Her Majesty in right of Canada.

**Contents of notice**

- **(2)** The notice of default is to include the place at which and the date being 30 days after the day on which the notice is served, on or before which a request for a review may be filed, and the particulars concerning the procedure for requesting a review.

**No set-off or compensation**

- **(3)** On the service of a notice of default, the person or ship served has no right of set-off or compensation against any amount spent by the person or ship under the assurance of compliance.



**Request for review**

**46.31** 

- **(1)** A person or ship served with a notice under subsection 46.3(1) may, on or before the date specified in the notice or within any further time that the Tribunal on application allows, file with the Tribunal a written request for a review of the Minister’s decision made under that subsection.

**Date, time and place for review**

- **(2)** On receipt of the request, the Tribunal shall appoint a date, time and place for the review and shall notify the Minister and the person or ship that filed the request of the date, time and place in writing.

**Review procedure**

- **(3)** The member of the Tribunal who is assigned to conduct the review shall provide the Minister and the person or ship with an opportunity that is consistent with procedural fairness and natural justice to present evidence and make representations.

**Burden of proof**

- **(4)** The burden is on the Minister to establish that the person or ship did not comply with the assurance of compliance referred to in the notice. The person is not required, and is not to be compelled, to give any evidence or testimony in the matter.

**Defence not available**

- **(5)** Despite subsections 46.26(8) and (9), a person or ship does not have a defence by reason that the person or ship exercised due diligence to comply with the assurance of compliance.

**Determination by member**

- **(6)** At the conclusion of the review, the member who conducts the review may confirm the Minister’s decision or determine that the person or ship has complied with the assurance of compliance and shall without delay inform the parties of his or her decision.



**Return of security**

**46.32** Any security deposited under subparagraph 46.27(1)(a)(ii) is to be returned to the person or ship if
- **(a)** a notice is served under subsection 46.3(1) and the person or ship pays double the amount of the penalty set out in the assurance of compliance; or
- **(b)** a member determines under subsection 46.31(6), or an appeal panel decides under subsection 46.34(3), that the assurance has been complied with.



**Notice of violation — option**

**46.33** 

- **(1)** A person or ship served with a notice of violation under paragraph 46.27(1)(b) may
	- **(a)** pay the amount of the penalty; or
	- **(b)** within 30 days after the day on which the notice is served or any further time that the Tribunal on application allows, file with the Tribunal a written request for a review of the facts of the violation or the amount of the penalty.

**When review not requested**

- **(2)** If a review is not requested within the period referred to in paragraph (1)(b) or the amount of the penalty is paid, the person or ship is considered to have committed the violation in respect of which the notice is served and proceedings in respect of the violation are ended.

**Date, time and place for review**

- **(3)** On receipt of a request filed under paragraph (1)(b), the Tribunal shall appoint a date, time and place for the review and shall notify the Minister and the person or ship that filed the request of the date, time and place in writing.

**Review procedure**

- **(4)** The member of the Tribunal assigned to conduct the review shall provide the Minister and the person or ship with an opportunity that is consistent with procedural fairness and natural justice to present evidence and make representations.

**Burden of proof**

- **(5)** The burden is on the Minister to establish that the person or ship committed the violation referred to in the notice. The person is not required, and is not to be compelled, to give any evidence or testimony in the matter.

**Determination by member**

- **(6)** At the conclusion of the review, the member who conducts the review shall, without delay and in writing, inform the Minister and the person or ship
	- **(a)** that the person or ship has not committed a violation, in which case, subject to section 46.34, no further proceedings under this Act are to be taken against the person or ship in respect of the alleged violation; and
	- **(b)** that the person or ship has committed a violation, in which case, subject to subsections 46.26(4) and (5) and the regulations, the member shall inform the Minister and the person or ship of the amount determined by the member to be payable to the Tribunal by or on behalf of the person or ship and the period within which it is to be paid.



**Right of appeal**

**46.34** 

- **(1)** The Minister or the person or ship that requested the review may, within 30 days after the day on which a determination is made under subsection 46.31(6) or 46.33(6), appeal the determination to the Tribunal.

**Loss of right of appeal**

- **(2)** A party that does not appear at the review hearing is not entitled to appeal a determination, unless they establish that there was sufficient reason to justify their absence.

**Disposition of appeal**

- **(3)** At the conclusion of the review, the appeal panel of the Tribunal that is assigned to hear the appeal may
	- **(a)** in the case of a determination made under subsection 46.31(6), dismiss the appeal, or allow the appeal and substitute its own decision; or
	- **(b)** in the case of a determination made under subsection 46.33(6), dismiss the appeal, or allow the appeal and, subject to subsections 46.26(4) and (5) and the regulations, substitute its own decision.

**Notice of decision**

- **(4)** The appeal panel shall inform the parties of its decision without delay and shall specify the period within which any amount determined by the appeal panel to be payable to the Tribunal is to be paid.



### Recovery of Debts


**Debts due to Her Majesty**

**46.35** 

- **(1)** The following amounts constitute debts due to Her Majesty in right of Canada that may be recovered in the Federal Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction:
	- **(a)** the amount of a penalty set out in a notice of violation referred to in paragraph 46.27(1)(b), from the expiry of the period specified in the notice for the payment of that amount, unless a review is requested under subsection 46.33(1);
	- **(b)** the amount of a penalty set out in a notice of default referred to in subsection 46.3(1), from the date the notice is served, unless a review is requested under subsection 46.31(1);
	- **(c)** the amount of a penalty determined by a member under section 46.33, or decided by an appeal panel under section 46.34, from the expiry of the period specified in the decision for the payment of that amount; and
	- **(d)** the amount of any costs and expenses referred to in subsection (3).

**Limitation or prescription period**

- **(2)** Proceedings to recover a debt referred to in subsection (1) may be commenced no later than five years after the day on which the debt becomes payable.

**Liability**

- **(3)** A person or ship that is liable to pay an amount referred to in paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) is also liable for the amount of any costs and expenses incurred in attempting to recover that amount.



**Certificate of default**

**46.36** 

- **(1)** All or part of a debt referred to in subsection 46.35(1) in respect of which there is a default of payment may be certified by the Minister or the Tribunal, as the case may be.

**Effect of registration**

- **(2)** On production to the Federal Court, a certificate made under subsection (1) is to be registered in that Court and, when registered, has the same force and effect, and proceedings may be taken in connection with it, as if it were a judgment obtained in that Court for a debt of the amount specified in it and all costs and expenses attendant on its registration.



### General


**Manner of service**

**46.37** 

- **(1)** A notice referred to in any of sections 46.27, 46.29, 46.3 and 46.45 is to be served
	- **(a)** in the case of an individual,
		- **(i)** by leaving a copy of it with the individual at any place or with someone who appears to be an adult member of the same household at the individual’s last known address or usual place of residence or, in the case of an individual under the age of 18, with a parent or other person having custody of them or exercising parental authority over them, or
		- **(ii)** by sending a copy of it by registered mail, courier or fax or other electronic means to the individual’s last known address or usual place of residence;
	- **(b)** in the case of a person other than an individual,
		- **(i)** by leaving a copy of it with their representative or with an officer or other individual who appears to control or manage the person’s or representative’s head office or place of business, or
		- **(ii)** by sending a copy of it by registered mail, courier or fax or other electronic means to their representative, to an individual referred to in subparagraph (i) or to the person’s or representative’s head office or place of business; and
	- **(c)** in the case of a ship,
		- **(i)** by delivering a copy of it personally to the master or another individual who is, or appears to be, in charge of the ship,
		- **(ii)** by posting a copy of it on any conspicuous part of the ship,
		- **(iii)** by leaving a copy of it with the owner or operator of the ship, with the owner’s or operator’s representative or with an officer or other individual who appears to control or manage the owner’s, operator’s or representative’s head office or place of business, or
		- **(iv)** by sending a copy of it by registered mail, courier or fax or other electronic means to the ship or to a person referred to in subparagraph (i) or (iii) or to their head office or place of business.

**Proof of service**

- **(2)** Service may be proved by
	- **(a)** an acknowledgement of service signed by the person served or on behalf of the person or ship served, specifying the date and location of service;
	- **(b)** a certificate of service, signed by the person who effected the service, indicating the name of the person or ship served and the means by which and day on which service was effected; or
	- **(c)** a record of electronic transmission setting out the date and time of transmission.

**Date service effective**

- **(3)** In the absence of an acknowledgement of service or a certificate of service, service is considered effective,
	- **(a)** in the case of service by registered mail or courier, on the 10th day after the day on which the notice is sent, as indicated on the receipt issued by the postal or courier service; and
	- **(b)** in the case of service by fax or other electronic means, on the day on which it is sent, as indicated on the record of transmission.



**Proof of violation by ship**

**46.38** It is sufficient proof that a ship has committed a violation to establish that the act or omission that constitutes the violation was committed by a person in charge of the ship, whether or not the person has been identified.



**Party to violation committed by ship**

**46.39** 

- **(1)** If a ship commits a violation under this Act and a person in charge of the ship directed, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission of the violation, that person is a party to and liable for the violation, whether or not the ship has been proceeded against under sections 46.27 to 46.36.

**Party to violation committed by corporation**

- **(2)** If a corporation commits a violation under this Act, any director, officer or agent or mandatary of the corporation who directed, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission of the violation is a party to and liable for the violation, whether or not the corporation has been identified or proceeded against under sections 46.27 to 46.36.



**Violation by employee or agent or mandatary**

**46.4** A person is liable for a violation that is committed by the person’s employee or agent or mandatary, whether or not the employee or agent or mandatary who actually committed the violation is identified or proceeded against under this Act.



**Direction to ship**

**46.41** For the purposes of a proceeding against a ship for a violation in respect of a contravention of a direction given under this Act, a direction is deemed to have been given to the ship if
- **(a)** it is given to the authorized representative or a person in charge of the ship; or
- **(b)** in the case of a direction that cannot be given to any person referred to in paragraph (a) despite reasonable efforts having been made to do so, a copy of it is posted on any conspicuous part of the ship.



**Limitation or prescription period**

**46.42** A notice of violation may be issued no later than two years after the day on which an authorized person becomes aware of the violation.



**Certificate**

**46.43** A document that purports to have been issued by an authorized person and that certifies the day on which they became aware of a violation is admissible in evidence without proof of the signature or official character of the person appearing to have signed it and, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, is evidence that the authorized person became aware of the violation on that day.



### Public Record


**Disclosure of notices of violation and default**

**46.44** The Minister shall keep a public record of notices of violation and notices of default, including, with respect to each violation or default, the nature of the violation or default, the name of the person or ship that committed it and the amount of the penalty.



**Notations removed**

**46.45** 

- **(1)** Unless the Minister is of the opinion that it is not in the public interest to do so, on the fifth anniversary of the day on which a person or ship has paid every penalty that the person or ship is liable to pay under this Act, the Minister shall remove a notice of violation or notice of default from the public record of notices of violation or default along with all the other information kept in the public record with respect to the violation or default.

**Duty to notify**

- **(2)** If the Minister is of the opinion that removal of a notation is not in the public interest, he or she shall give notice of that fact to the person or ship in writing, and provide the grounds for that opinion.

**Contents of notice**

- **(3)** The notice is to include the place at which and the date, being 30 days after the day on which the notice is served, on or before which a request for a review may be filed and the particulars concerning the procedure for requesting a review.

**Request for review**

- **(4)** The person or ship may, on or before the date specified in the notice or within any further time that the Tribunal on application allows, file with the Tribunal a written request for a review of the Minister’s decision made under subsection (2).

**Date, time and place for review**

- **(5)** On receipt of the request, the Tribunal shall appoint a date, time and place for the review and shall notify the Minister and the person or ship that filed the request of the date, time and place in writing.

**Review procedure**

- **(6)** The member of the Tribunal assigned to conduct the review shall provide the Minister and the person or ship with an opportunity that is consistent with procedural fairness and natural justice to present evidence and make representations.

**Determination**

- **(7)** The member may confirm the Minister’s decision or refer the matter back to the Minister for reconsideration.

**Right of appeal**

- **(8)** The person or ship that requested the review may, within 30 days after the day on which a determination is made under subsection (7), appeal the determination to the Tribunal.

**Loss of right of appeal**

- **(9)** A person or ship that does not appear at the review hearing is not entitled to appeal a determination, unless they establish that there was sufficient reason to justify their absence.

**Disposition of appeal**

- **(10)** The appeal panel of the Tribunal that is assigned to hear the appeal may dismiss the appeal or refer the matter back to the Minister for reconsideration.



### Regulations


**Regulations**

**46.46** The Governor in Council may make regulations
- **(a)** designating as a violation the contravention of
	- **(i)** any specified provision of this Act or of the regulations, or
	- **(ii)** any direction given under any specified provision of this Act;
- **(b)** establishing a penalty, or a range of penalties, in respect of a violation, up to the maximum amount set out in subsection 46.26(4);
- **(c)** if a range of penalties is established by regulations made under paragraph (b), respecting the method of determining the amount payable as the penalty for the violation, including the criteria to be taken into account;
- **(d)** setting out the total maximum amount payable for a related series or class of violations;
- **(e)** respecting the circumstances under which, the criteria by which and the manner in which the amount of a penalty may be reduced in whole or in part; and
- **(f)** respecting persons that may request a review on behalf of a ship in relation to an alleged violation by the ship.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 253


**
> 1998, c. 10, ss. 154 to 156; 2001, c. 26, pars. 318(d) and (e); 2008, c. 21, s. 62(F)
**

**253** Sections 47 to 51 of the Act are replaced by the following:

**Proceeding without a pilot — persons**

**47** 

- **(1)** The owner, master or person in charge of a ship commits an offence if the ship is subject to compulsory pilotage and proceeds through a compulsory pilotage area without being under the conduct of a licensed pilot for that compulsory pilotage area or a regular member of the ship’s complement who is a pilotage certificate holder for that compulsory pilotage area.

**Proceeding without a pilot — ship**

- **(2)** A ship commits an offence if it is subject to compulsory pilotage and proceeds through a compulsory pilotage area without being under the conduct of a licensed pilot for that compulsory pilotage area or a regular member of the ship’s complement who is a pilotage certificate holder for that compulsory pilotage area.

**Non-application**

- **(3)** Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if
	- **(a)** the master of the ship takes the conduct of it in accordance with subsection 38.02(1);
	- **(b)** the relevant Authority waives compulsory pilotage; or
	- **(c)** the ship is in Canadian waters that are contiguous with waters of the United States, the ship is under the conduct of an individual who is authorized to have the conduct of a ship by an appropriate authority of the United States and the conditions set out in the regulations are met.

**Punishment — individuals**

- **(4)** Every individual who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $1,000,000 or to imprisonment for a term of not more than 18 months, or to both.

**Punishment — other persons**

- **(5)** Every person, other than an individual, that commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $1,000,000.

**Punishment — ships**

- **(6)** Every ship that commits an offence under subsection (2) is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $1,000,000.



**Offence — persons**

**48** 

- **(1)** Every person commits an offence that contravenes
	- **(a)** a provision of this Act, other than section 15.3 or subsection 47(1);
	- **(b)** a provision of the regulations;
	- **(c)** a direction under subsection 46.12(2) or (3);
	- **(d)** a direction under subsection 46.22(1); or
	- **(e)** a direction under section 52.3.

**Punishment — individuals**

- **(2)** Every individual who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term of not more than 12 months, or to both.

**Punishment — other persons**

- **(3)** Every person, other than an individual, that commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $500,000.



**Contravention of section 15.3**

**48.1** A person that contravenes section 15.3 commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $10,000 for each day on which the offence is committed or continued but is not liable to imprisonment.



**Offence — ships**

**48.11** 

- **(1)** Every ship commits an offence that contravenes
	- **(a)** subsection 52.1(2) or 52.2(5);
	- **(b)** a provision of the regulations; or
	- **(c)** a direction given under paragraph 46.12(3)(b) or subsection 46.12(4).

**Punishment**

- **(2)** Every ship that commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable on summary conviction to a fine of not more than $500,000.



**Continuing offences**

**48.2** An offence under section 48 or 48.11 that is committed or continued on more than one day constitutes a separate offence for each day on which it is committed or continued.



**Court order**

**48.3** If a person is convicted of an offence under this Act, in addition to any other punishment that may be imposed under this Act, the court may, having regard to the nature of the offence and the circumstances surrounding its commission, make an order having any or all of the following effects:
- **(a)** prohibiting the person from performing any act or engaging in any activity that may, in the opinion of the court, result in the continuation or repetition of the offence;
- **(b)** directing the person to take any action the court considers appropriate to remedy or avoid any harm that results or may result from the commission of the offence;
- **(c)** prohibiting the person from exercising the rights or privileges of a licence, pilotage certificate, waiver or exemption order under this Act for the period or at the times and places that may be specified in the order; and
- **(d)** prohibiting the person from operating a ship or providing services essential to the operation of a ship for the period or at the times and places that may be specified in the order.



**Service on ship**

**48.4** 

- **(1)** If a ship is charged with an offence under this Act, the summons is to be served
	- **(a)** by delivering it to the authorized representative of the ship or, in the absence of an authorized representative, a person in charge of the ship; or
	- **(b)** if service cannot reasonably be effected in the manner provided in paragraph (a), by posting the summons on any conspicuous part of the ship.

**Appearance at trial**

- **(2)** If a ship is charged with an offence under this Act, the ship may appear by counsel or representative before the court. Despite the [Criminal Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-46.md), if the ship does not so appear, a court may, on proof of service of the summons, proceed to hold the trial.



**Proof of offence by ship**

**48.5** In a prosecution of a ship for an offence under this Act, it is sufficient proof that the ship has committed the offence to establish that the act or omission that constitutes the offence was committed by a person in charge of the ship, whether or not the person has been identified.



**Party to offence committed by ship**

**48.6** 

- **(1)** If a ship commits an offence under this Act and a person in charge of the ship directed, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission of the offence, that person is a party to and guilty of the offence and liable on conviction to the punishment provided for the offence, whether or not the ship has been prosecuted or convicted.

**Party to offence committed by corporation**

- **(2)** If a corporation commits an offence under this Act, any director, officer or agent or mandatary of the corporation who directed, authorized, assented to, acquiesced in or participated in the commission of the offence is a party to and guilty of the offence and liable on conviction to the punishment provided for the offence, whether or not the corporation has been prosecuted or convicted.



**Offence by employee or agent or mandatary**

**48.7** A person is liable for an offence that is committed by the person’s employee or their agent or mandatary, whether or not the employee or agent or mandatary who actually committed the offence is identified or prosecuted for the offence under this Act.



**Direction to ship**

**48.8** For the purposes of prosecuting a ship for contravening a direction given under this Act, a direction is deemed to have been given to the ship if
- **(a)** it is given to the authorized representative or a person in charge of the ship; or
- **(b)** in the case of a direction that cannot be given to any person referred to in paragraph (a) despite reasonable efforts having been made to do so, a copy of it is posted on any conspicuous part of the ship.



**Due diligence defence — persons**

**49** 

- **(1)** A person is not to be found guilty of an offence under this Act, other than in relation to a contravention of section 46.16, 46.21 or 46.25, if they establish that they exercised due diligence to prevent its commission.

**Due diligence defence — ships**

- **(2)** A ship is not to be found guilty of an offence under this Act if the person that committed the act or omission that constitutes the offence establishes that they exercised due diligence to prevent its commission.



**Limitation or prescription period**

**50** 

- **(1)** Proceedings by way of summary conviction under this Act may be instituted no later than two years after the day on which the Minister becomes aware of the subject matter of the proceedings.

**Certificate of Minister**

- **(2)** A document that purports to have been issued by the Minister and that certifies the day on which that Minister became aware of the subject matter of the proceedings is admissible in evidence without proof of the signature or official character of the individual appearing to have signed the document and is evidence that the Minister became aware of the subject matter on that day.

**Defendant outside Canada**

- **(3)** If the proceedings cannot be commenced because the proposed defendant is outside Canada, the proceedings may be commenced no later than 60 days after the defendant arrives in Canada.



**Jurisdiction in relation to offences**

**51** If a person or ship is charged with an offence under this Act, any court in Canada that would have had cognizance of the offence if it had been committed by a person or ship within the limits of its ordinary jurisdiction has jurisdiction to try the offence as if it had been committed there.



**Reporting of alleged contravention**

**51.1** 

- **(1)** An individual who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person or ship has contravened or intends to contravene a provision of this Act or the regulations or a direction under this Act may notify the Minister of the particulars of the matter and may request that their identity be kept confidential with respect to the notification.

**Confidentiality**

- **(2)** The identity of an individual to whom the Minister has provided an assurance of confidentiality may be disclosed by the Minister only in accordance with the [Privacy Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-21.md).





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 254

**254** The heading before section 52 of the Act is replaced by the following:

## Regulations, Exemption Orders, Interim Orders and Directions




######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 255


**
> R.S., c. 31 (1st Supp.), s. 86
**

**255** Section 52 of the Act is replaced by the following:

**Regulations**

**52** 

- **(1)** The Governor in Council may make regulations respecting the provision of pilotage services, including regulations
	- **(a)** establishing compulsory pilotage areas;
	- **(b)** respecting which ships or classes of ships are subject to compulsory pilotage;
	- **(c)** respecting waivers of compulsory pilotage;
	- **(d)** respecting master-pilot exchanges;
	- **(e)** respecting the classes of licences and classes of pilotage certificates that are to be issued as well as the form and manner of their issuance;
	- **(f)** respecting the qualifications that are required of an applicant for a licence or pilotage certificate, or any class of licence or pilotage certificate, for a compulsory pilotage area, including the applicant’s physical and mental fitness, degree of general and local knowledge, skill, training, experience and proficiency in one or both of the official languages of Canada;
	- **(g)** respecting skill and knowledge examinations, medical examinations, apprenticeship, the provision of documents and recommendations and other means of determining whether an individual meets the qualifications required under paragraph (f);
	- **(h)** respecting the conditions of a licence or pilotage certificate or the conditions of any class of licence or pilotage certificate;
	- **(i)** limiting the number of licences or classes of licences that may be issued for a compulsory pilotage area;
	- **(j)** respecting the information to be provided and the procedures and practices to be followed by a ship that is about to enter, leave or proceed within a compulsory pilotage area;
	- **(k)** respecting the minimum number of licensed pilots or pilotage certificate holders that are required to be on board a ship at any time and which class of licence or pilotage certificate that they are required to hold;
	- **(l)** respecting additional training and periodic medical examinations for licensed pilots and pilotage certificate holders;
	- **(m)** respecting risk assessments;
	- **(n)** respecting the development and implementation of management systems by the Authorities; and
	- **(o)** respecting fees and charges to be paid in relation to the administration of this Act, including the development of regulations, and the enforcement of this Act.

**United States pilots and waters**

- **(2)** With respect to Canadian waters that are contiguous with waters of the United States, the regulations may set out the conditions under which
	- **(a)** an individual who is authorized to have the conduct of a ship by an appropriate authority of the United States may pilot in Canadian waters; and
	- **(b)** a licensed pilot or pilotage certificate holder may have the conduct of a ship in waters of the United States.

**Paragraph (1)(l)**

- **(3)** Regulations referred to in paragraph (1)(l) may distinguish between licensed pilots and between pilotage certificate holders on the basis of the class of licence or pilotage certificate they hold.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 256

**256** The Act is amended by adding the following after section 52:

**Exemption orders**

**52.1** 

- **(1)** The Minister may, by order, exempt for a period of not more than three years any person or ship from the application of any provision of this Act or the regulations, subject to any conditions that the Minister considers appropriate, if the exemption would allow the undertaking of research and development, including in respect of any type of ships, technologies, systems, components or procedures and practices that may, in the Minister’s opinion, enhance marine safety or environmental protection.

**Compliance with conditions**

- **(2)** Every person or ship subject to a condition of the exemption order shall comply with that condition.

**Publication**

- **(3)** The Minister shall, as soon as feasible after making an exemption order, publish a notice of it on a Government of Canada website or by any other means that the Minister considers appropriate.



**Interim orders**

**52.2** 

- **(1)** The Minister may make an interim order that contains any provision that may be contained in a regulation made under this Act if the Minister believes that immediate action is required to deal with an urgent issue related to the provision of pilotage services that poses a significant risk to safety, human health or the environment.

**Cessation of effect**

- **(2)** The interim order has effect from the time that it is made but ceases to have effect on the earliest of
	- **(a)** the day on which it is repealed,
	- **(b)** the day on which a regulation made under this Act that has the same effect as the interim order comes into force,
	- **(c)** one year after the day on which it is made or any shorter period that may be specified in it, unless it is extended by the Governor in Council, and
	- **(d)** the day that is specified in the order of the Governor in Council, if the Governor in Council extends the interim order.

**Extension — Governor in Council**

- **(3)** The Governor in Council may extend the interim order for a period of no more than two years after the end of the applicable period referred to in paragraph (2)(c).

**Restriction**

- **(4)** If an interim order is extended by the Governor in Council, the Minister is not authorized to remake the interim order after it ceases to have effect.

**Compliance with interim order**

- **(5)** Every person or ship subject to an interim order shall comply with it.

**Contravention of unpublished order**

- **(6)** No person or ship may be convicted of an offence or found liable for a violation consisting of a contravention of an interim order that, at the time of the alleged contravention, had not been published in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) unless it is proved that, at the time of the alleged contravention, the person or ship had been notified of the interim order or reasonable steps had been taken to bring the purport of the interim order to the notice of those persons or ships likely to be affected by it.

**Publication**

- **(7)** An interim order is to be published in the [Canada Gazette](http://www.gazette.gc.ca/) within 23 days after it is made.

**Tabling of order**

- **(8)** The Minister shall ensure that a copy of each interim order is tabled in each House of Parliament within 15 days after it is made. It is to be sent to the Clerk of the House if the House is not sitting.



**Direction to licensed pilot or pilot corporation**

**52.3** 

- **(1)** The Minister may, in writing, direct a licensed pilot or pilot corporation
	- **(a)** to cease an activity that poses a risk to the safety of navigation, including the safety of the public and marine personnel, or to human health, property or the environment; or
	- **(b)** to conduct an activity that protects the safety of navigation, including the safety of the public and marine personnel, or that protects human health, property or the environment.

**Exceptional circumstances**

- **(2)** The Minister is not authorized to make the direction unless the Minister is satisfied that the direction is necessary to deal with exceptional circumstances that involve a risk to the safety of navigation, including the safety of the public and marine personnel, or to human health, property or the environment.

**Validity period**

- **(3)** The direction is valid for the period specified in it as long as that period ends no more than 30 days after the day on which it is made.



**Incorporation by reference**

**52.4** The limitation set out in paragraph 18.1(2)(a) of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md), to the effect that a document is to be incorporated as it exists on a particular date, does not apply to any power to make regulations under this Act.



**[Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md)**

**52.5** The following are not statutory instruments for the purposes of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md):
- **(a)** a direction given under subsection 46.12(2), (3) or (4);
- **(b)** a detention order made under section 46.2;
- **(c)** a direction given under subsection 46.22(1);
- **(d)** an exemption order made under section 52.1;
- **(e)** an interim order made under section 52.2; and
- **(f)** a direction given under section 52.3.





######           — 2019, c. 29, s. 257

**257** Paragraph 52.5(a) of the Act is replaced by the following:

- **(a)** a resolution made under section 33;
- **(a.1)** a direction given under subsection 46.12(2), (3) or (4);





