> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/82/30.md)

# Assigning to the Minister of the Environment the Administration, Management and Control of Certain Public Lands

**SI/82-30**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA WILDLIFE ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/W/W-9.md)

Date registered: 27 January 1982

----------

Whereas the Governor General in Council is satisfied that the public lands described in the schedule hereto are required for wildlife research, conservation or interpretation.

Therefore, His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of the Environment, pursuant to subsection 4(1) of the [Canada Wildlife Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/W/W-9.md), is pleased hereby to assign to the Minister of the Environment, the administration, management and control of the public lands described in the schedule hereto.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**1** In the Province of Nova Scotia

Sea Wolf Island National Wildlife Area



Being all that parcel of land, in the county of Inverness, comprising Sea Wolf (Margaree) Island, said parcel containing about 100 acres;



Saving and Excepting therefrom all and singular those two parcels of land presently under the administration and control of Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada more particularly described as follows:



*Lot No. 1*



BEGINNING at a point at a distance of eighty-five feet (85’) measured in a straight line on a bearing S 20° W from the centre of a new tower at the light station on Sea Wolf Island.



THENCE from the Point of Beginning so determined, N 42° W a distance of two hundred feet (200’) to a point; thence N 48° W a distance of two hundred feet (200’) to a point; thence S 42° E a distance of two hundred feet (200’) to a point; thence S 48° W a distance of two hundred feet (200’) to the Point of Beginning.



THE SAID parcel of land above described contains an area of 40,000 square feet, more or less.



*Lot No. 21 (Right of Way)*



A STRIP of land fifteen feet (15’) wide over an existing right-of-way leading from the southerly boundary of the above mentioned described parcel of land leading to a public wharf on the southerly side of the Island.



ALL BEARINGS mentioned in this description are in reference to the Magnetic Meridian of 1868.




**2** In the Province of Alberta

Spiers Lake National Wildlife Area



Being all those parcels of land in Township 34, Range 16, West of the Fourth Meridian; the northwest quarter of section 17; including the part of Spiers Lake lying therein; said quarter and part containing 64.7 hectares, (160 acres) more or less.





