> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Textes%20réglementaires/2006/141.md)

# Order Governing the Grant of the Memorial Cross (Canadian Forces)

**SI/2006-141**

Enabling authorities: 
- OTHER THAN STATUTORY AUTHORITY

Date registered: 13 December 2006

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Veterans Affairs, hereby makes the annexed Order Governing the Grant of the Memorial Cross (Canadian Forces).




## Interpretation


**1** In this Order, “member” means an officer or non-commissioned member of the Canadian Forces.




## Application


**2** This Order applies to all members who serve after December 31, 2006 in the Regular Force, Primary Reserve, Cadet Instructors Cadre or Canadian Rangers.



**3** The Order Governing the Grant of the Memorial Cross to Mothers and Widows, made by Order in Council P.C. 5812 of December 5, 1950, does not apply to members to whom this Order applies.




## Description


**4** The Memorial Cross is a cross patée in silver placed on a wreath of laurel, suspended from a brooch bar in the form of the lateral arms of the Cross; at the end of the upright, the Royal Crown; at the foot and at the end of either arm, a maple leaf; and in the centre, the Royal Cypher of the reigning monarch. The reverse of the Cross is engraved with the service number, rank, initials and surname of the member commemorated.




## Grant of Memorial Cross


**5** The Memorial Cross shall be granted as a memento of personal loss and sacrifice in respect of the death of a member or former member resulting from an injury or disease related to military service.



**6** The Memorial Cross shall be granted to a maximum of three recipients who are designated by a member or former member, in a form approved by the Chief of the Defence Staff, and who survive the member or former member.



**7** The Minister of National Defence is responsible for the grant of the Memorial Cross if a member dies, and the Minister of Veterans Affairs is responsible if a former member dies.


