> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2007/123.md)

# 19th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2007-123**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 7 June 2007

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_Document1_hq_2031'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_Document1_hq_2030'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed 19th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol Privileges and Immunities Order.

<a name='fn_Document1_hq_2031'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, ss. 3 and 10<br />

<a name='fn_Document1_hq_2030'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***experts performing missions for the Organization*** means experts who are working under the Montreal Protocol and whose identities are communicated to the Government of Canada by the Organization. (*experts en mission pour l’organisation*)

***meeting*** means the 19th meeting of the Organization to be held in Montreal from September 17 to 21, 2007. (*réunion*)

***Montreal Protocol*** means The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, published by the United Nations Environment Programme, done at Montreal on September 16, 1987, as amended from time to time. (*Protocole de Montréal*)

***Organization*** means the intergovernmental meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and the Secretariat defined in Article 1 of that Protocol. (*Organisation*)

***preparatory meetings*** means the 39th meeting of the Implementation Committee under the Non-compliance Procedure for the Montreal Protocol and the 1st meeting of the Bureau of the 18th Meeting of the Parties to be held in Montreal on September 12 to 14, 2007 and September 15, 2007 respectively. (*réunions préparatoires*)

***relevant period*** means the period beginning on September 10, 2007, and ending on September 24, 2007. (*période visée*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** 

- **(1)** During the relevant period, the Organization shall have in Canada the legal capacity of a body corporate and the privileges and immunities set out in Articles II and III of the Convention.

- **(2)** During the relevant period, representatives of states that are members of the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent that may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the meeting and preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article IV of the Convention.

- **(3)** During the relevant period, experts performing missions for the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent that may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the meeting and preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI and Section 26 of Article VII of the Convention.



**3** The privileges and immunities referred to in section 2 do not apply to Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada in respect of liability for taxes or duties imposed by any law in Canada.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


