> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2007/127.md)

# Vessel Detention Orders Review Regulations

**SOR/2007-127**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA SHIPPING ACT, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md)

Date registered: 7 June 2007

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, Infrastructure and Communities, pursuant to paragraph 244(c) of the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Vessel Detention Orders Review Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2001, c. 26<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md). (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Marine Technical Review Board established under section 26 of the Act. (*Bureau*)




## Review


**2** 

- **(1)** The authorized representative of a vessel that is detained under section 222 of the Act may, within 30 days after the day on which notice of the detention order was served, apply to the Board’s National Vice-Chair for a review of the order.

- **(2)** The National Vice-Chair shall assign the review to a Vice-Chair of the Board.

- **(3)** The Vice-Chair may confirm, rescind or vary the detention order and shall notify the authorized representative of the Vice-Chair’s decision.




## Reconsideration


**3** 

- **(1)** Within 30 days after the day on which the authorized representative receives notification of the decision made under subsection 2(3), the authorized representative may apply to the Board’s Chair for a reconsideration of the decision.

- **(2)** The Chair may confirm, rescind or vary the decision and shall notify the authorized representative of the Chair’s decision.




## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fnstar_e'>[*]</a></sup>**4** These Regulations come into force on the day on which section 2 of the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md), chapter 26 of the Statutes of Canada, 2001, comes into force.

<a name='fnstar_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force July 1, 2007, *see* SI/2007-65.]<br />


