> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2007/204.md)

# Regulations Implementing the United Nations Resolution on Lebanon

**SOR/2007-204**

Enabling authorities: 
- [UNITED NATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md)

Date registered: 18 September 2007

----------

Whereas the Security Council of the United Nations, acting under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, adopted Resolution 1701 (2006) on August 11, 2006;

And whereas it appears to the Governor in Council to be necessary to make regulations for enabling the measures set out in that Resolution to be effectively applied;

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to section 2 of the [United Nations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/U/U-2.md), hereby makes the annexed Regulations Implementing the United Nations Resolution on Lebanon.




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***arms and related material*** means any type of weapon, ammunition, military vehicle or military or paramilitary equipment, and includes their spare parts. (*armes et matériel connexe*)

***Canadian*** means an individual who is a citizen within the meaning of the [Citizenship Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-29.md) or a body corporate incorporated by or continued under the laws of Canada or a province. (*Canadien*)

***Lebanon*** means the Lebanese Republic and includes its political subdivisions. (*Liban*)

***person*** means an individual, a body corporate, a trust, a partnership, a fund, an unincorporated association or organization or a foreign state. (*personne*)

***Security Council Resolution*** means Resolution 1701 (2006) of August 11, 2006 adopted by the Security Council of the United Nations. (*résolution du Conseil de sécurité*)

***technical assistance*** means any form of assistance, such as providing instruction, training, consulting services or technical advice or transferring know-how or technical data. (*aide technique*)

***technical data*** includes blueprints, technical drawings, photographic imagery, computer software, models, formulas, engineering designs and specifications, technical and operating manuals and any technical information. (*données techniques*)




## Application


**2** These Regulations are binding on Her Majesty in right of Canada or a province.




## Prohibitions


**3** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly export, sell, supply or ship, directly or indirectly, arms and related material, wherever situated, to any person in Lebanon.



**4** No owner or master of a Canadian vessel, as defined in section 2 of the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md), and no operator of an aircraft registered in Canada shall knowingly carry, cause to be carried or permit to be carried, arms and related material, wherever situated, destined for any person in Lebanon.
> SOR/2009-23, s. 7.




**5** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly provide, directly or indirectly, to any person in Lebanon technical assistance related to the provision, manufacture, maintenance or use of arms and related material.
> SOR/2009-23, ss. 8(E), 9.




**6** Sections 3 to 5 do not apply in respect of arms and related material and related technical assistance authorized in advance in writing by the Government of Lebanon or by the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon.



**7** No person in Canada and no Canadian outside Canada shall knowingly do anything that causes, assists or promote, or is intended to cause, assist or promote any act or thing prohibited by sections 3 to 5.




## Exception


**8** No person contravenes these Regulations by doing an act or thing prohibited by any of sections 3 to 5 and 7 if, before the person does that act or thing, the Minister of Foreign Affairs issues a certificate to the person stating that
- **(a)** the Security Council Resolution does not intend that such an act or thing be prohibited; or
- **(b)** the act or thing has been approved by the Security Council of the United Nations.




## Application Prior to Publication


**9** For the purpose of paragraph 11(2)(a) of the [Statutory Instruments Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-22.md), these Regulations apply according to their terms before they are published in the Canada Gazette.




## Coming into Force


**10** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


