> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2007/252.md)

# Payments to the Provinces Regulations

**SOR/2007-252**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SOFTWOOD LUMBER PRODUCTS EXPORT CHARGE ACT, 2006](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2006/c.%2013.md)

Date registered: 15 November 2007

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister for International Trade and the Minister of National Revenue, pursuant to subsection 100(2) of the [Softwood Lumber Products Export Charge Act, 2006](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2006/c.%2013.md)<sup><a href='#fn_609530-E_hq_2746'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Payments to the Provinces Regulations.

<a name='fn_609530-E_hq_2746'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2006, c. 13<br />




**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Softwood Lumber Products Export Charge Act, 2006](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2006/c.%2013.md). (*Loi*)

***non-excluded provinces*** means Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, British Columbia, Saskatchewan and Alberta. (*provinces non exclues*)




**Application**

**2** These Regulations apply in respect of the amount of the payments to be made to the provinces by the Minister of National Revenue under section 99 of the Act.




**First calculation**

**3** 

- **(1)** The first calculation of an amount of a payment is for the period beginning on October 12, 2006 and ending on September 30, 2007.

**Later calculations**

- **(2)** Later calculations are to be made in respect of calendar quarters.

**Reconciliation**

- **(3)** Except for the final reconciliation, a reconciliation of the amounts used in calculations is to be made annually.




**Revenue**

**4** The amount of revenue to be attributed to a province is the revenue derived from the charge imposed under section 10 or 15 of the Act on softwood lumber products originating from that province.




**Costs**

**5** 

- **(1)** The amount of the costs referred to in paragraphs 99(1)(a) and (b) of the Act to be attributed to a non-excluded province for a period is determined by the formula
```
A × (B/C)
```
where
- **A** is the costs that the Minister becomes aware of during the period;
- **B** is the volume in board feet of softwood lumber products exported from the non-excluded province to the United States during the period under export permits;
- **C** is the volume in board feet of softwood lumber products exported from all of the non-excluded provinces to the United States during the period under export permits.

**Exception**

- **(2)** In the case of the costs referred to in paragraph 99(1)(b) of the Act, the formula applies unless the Minister determines otherwise under section 99 of the Act.




**Coming into force**

**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


