> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2007/67.md)

# Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2007-67**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 29 March 2007

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_609493-e_hq_1578'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_609493-e_hq_1579'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units Privileges and Immunities Order.

<a name='fn_609493-e_hq_1578'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, ss. 3 and 10<br />

<a name='fn_609493-e_hq_1579'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***United Nations Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention des Nations Unies*)

***Organization*** means the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence Units. (*Organisation*)

***Vienna Convention*** means the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations set out in Schedule I to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention de Vienne*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** 

- **(1)** The Organization shall have in Canada the legal capacities of a body corporate and the privileges and immunities set out in Articles II and III of the United Nations Convention.

- **(2)** Officials of the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent that may be required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the Organization, the privileges and immunities set out in section 18 of Article V of the United Nations Convention.

- **(3)** In addition to the privileges and immunities accorded to officials under subsection (2), the Executive Secretary of the Secretariat of the Organization, together with the members of his or her family forming part of his or her household, shall have in Canada privileges and immunities comparable to the privileges and immunities accorded to diplomatic agents and the members of their families forming part of their households under the Vienna Convention.



**3** The privileges and immunities referred to in subsections 2(2) and (3) do not apply to Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada in respect of their liability for taxes or duties imposed by any law in Canada.



**4** This Order does not restrict the capacity of the Government of Canada to refuse officials of the Organization entry to Canada or to exclude them from Canada, for reasons linked to national security.




## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


