> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/85/1117.md)

# Order Providing for the Fixing, Imposing and Collecting of Levies From Potato Producers in the Province of Alberta

**SOR/85-1117**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 29 November 1985

----------

The Alberta Potato Commission, pursuant to section 4<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-85-1117_e_hq_6391'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Alberta Potato Order](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/101-200/C.R.C.,%20c.%20133.md), C.R.C., c. 133, hereby makes the annexed Order providing for the fixing, imposing and collecting of levies from potato producers in the Province of Alberta.

<a name='fn_SOR-85-1117_e_hq_6391'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/85-708, 1985 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 3310<br />

Calgary, Alberta, November 22, 1985




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Alberta Potato Marketing Levies (Interprovincial and Export) Order.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order,

***dealer*** means a person engaged in the business of buying, receiving or selling potatoes in the Province of Alberta; (*négociant*)

***grower*** means a person who is a producer of potatoes in the Province of Alberta; (*producteur*)

***ungraded potatoes*** means potatoes that are delivered by a grower to any other person without first being graded or sorted except to remove potatoes that are so damaged or diseased as to be unfit for human consumption. (*pommes de terre non classées*)




## Levies


**3** Every grower shall pay to the Commission in respect of potatoes described in an item in Column I of the schedule that are sold in interprovincial or export trade a levy in the amount set out in Column II of that item.




## Method of Payment


**4** 

- **(1)** Every grower who sells potatoes in interprovincial or export trade, other than to a dealer or a dealer’s agent, shall
	- **(a)** at the end of every calendar month, calculate the total sales of potatoes made by him or on his behalf in interprovincial or export trade; and
	- **(b)** on or before the 15th day of the following calendar month, pay to the Commission at its office at Lethbridge, Alberta, the levy referred to in section 3 in respect of the sales referred to in paragraph (a).

- **(2)** Every dealer who buys or receives potatoes from a grower for the purpose of sale in interprovincial or export trade shall
	- **(a)** deduct from the moneys payable to the grower, the levy described in section 3; and
	- **(b)** pay that levy to the Commission at its office at Lethbridge, Alberta, on or before the 15th day of the month following the month of sale.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 3)**
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Type of Potatoes</th>
<th>Amount of levy per hundredweight</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Potatoes graded Canada No. 1 or Canada No. 2</td>
<td>$0.0825</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Potatoes that are to be used as seed</td>
<td>0.0825</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Ungraded potatoes for uses other than processing</td>
<td>0.0825</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Ungraded potatoes for processing</td>
<td>0.0625</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Potatoes remaining in a lot after potatoes graded Canada No. 1 and Canada No. 2 have been removed</td>
<td>0.04</td>
</tr>
</table>


