> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/85/658.md)

# Order Exempting Property, Rights or Interests from the Application of Subsection 3(2) of the Northern Transportation Company Limited Disposal Authorization Act and Transferring the Control, Management and Administration Thereof

**SOR/85-658**

Enabling authorities: 
- [NORTHERN TRANSPORTATION COMPANY LIMITED DISPOSAL AUTHORIZATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2035.md)

Date registered: 13 July 1985

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport pursuant to subsection 3(3) of the [Northern Transportation Company Limited Disposal Authorization Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2035.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Order exempting property, rights or interests from the application of subsection 3(2) of the Northern Transportation Company Limited Disposal Authorization Act and transferring the control, management and administration thereof.




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Northern Transportation Company Limited Exemption and Transfer Order.




## Exemption


**2** The property, rights and interests of Her Majesty set out in the schedule are exempt from the application of subsection 3(2) of the [Northern Transportation Company Limited Disposal Authorization Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2035.md).




## Transfer of Control, Management and Administration


**3** 

- **(1)** The control, management and administration of the property, rights and interests set out in items 1 to 4 of Part I of the schedule are transferred to the Minister of Public Works.

- **(2)** The control, management and administration of the property, rights and interests set out in items 5 to 8 of Part I of the schedule are transferred to the Canadian Commercial Corporation.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(sections 2 and 3)**

**PART I** 

**1** that part of lot 1055 in the Town of Hay River in the Northwest Territories, according to a plan of survey filed in the Land Titles Office for the Northwest Territories under number 1059, shaded in the sketch contained in Part II together with an unrestricted right of way for access and egress to the Hay River over lot 1023 in the Town of Hay River, according to a plan of survey filed in the Land Titles Office for the Northwest Territories under number 1059.


**2** all real property, rights, title and interests in real property situate within the municipal boundaries of Fort McMurray, Alberta and registered in the name of Northern Transportation Company Limited in the Land Titles Office of the North Alberta Land Registration District except that part of Lot 1 in Block 2 on Plan 3359 T.R. (R.L.S. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 Fort McMurray) contained in Part III.


**3** all real property, rights, title and interests in real property not registered in the name of Northern Transportation Company Limited in a public land registry or land titles office.


**4** the property, rights or interests in or arising out of the Agreement dated 25 February, 1985, between Northern Transportation Company Limited and Her Majesty, represented by the Minister of Transport, covering the base of a container warehouse at Tuktoyaktuk, N.W.T. for the period August 1, 1983 to August 1, 1985.


**5** the property, rights or interests in or arising out of the lease agreement made as of May 30, 1979 between the United States of America represented by the United States Air Force and Northern Transportation Company Limited and renewed by letter agreement dated November 22, 1983.


**6** the property, rights or interests in or arising out of the arrangement entitled “Arrangement for Support of certain Dew Line Radar Stations in the Canadian Arctic” concluded May 21, 1957 between Northern Transportation Company Limited and the United States Air Force regarding the support by annual resupply of the Dew Line.


**7** the property, rights or interests in or arising out of the contract, number F05604-85-C-0016, dated January 18, 1985 and between the United States Air Force (1014 Contracting Squadron) and Northern Transportation Company Limited as amended effective April 1, 1985 under amendment P00001 and June 13, 1985 under amendment P00002.


**8** the property, rights and interests in the following:
- NTAL-2 Lightering Vessel
- 1983 GMC Brigadier Flat Deck Truck
- M/NT9JC042
- S/N 1GDP9C1Z8DV513455
- 1983 Brigadier Flat Deck Truck
- M/NT9JC042
- S/N 1GDP9C1Z1DV514091
- Tuktoyaktuk Tank Farm
- D-8 Caterpillar Tractor
- D-8 Caterpillar Tractor
- Trackmaster 63C-1342
- Panabode Skid Mounted Bldg.
- Royal Typewriter
- Rotary Chair


> Image: Part II Annex A - Map that shows part of Hay River, Northwest Territories, with lot numbers.

> Image: Part III - Map that shows part of Fort McMurray, Alberta, with lot numbers.


