> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2017/162.md)

# United Nations Peacekeeping Defence Ministerial Conference (Vancouver 2017) — Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2017-162**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 15 August 2017

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3155-E-0726_hq_20523'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_9780_hq_20372'>[b]</a></sup>, makes the annexed United Nations Peacekeeping Defence Ministerial Conference (Vancouver 2017) — Privileges and Immunities Order.

<a name='fn_81000-2-3155-E-0726_hq_20523'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, ss. 3 and 10<br />

<a name='fn_9780_hq_20372'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Conference*** means the intergovernmental conference known as the United Nations Peacekeeping Defence Ministerial Conference, to be held in Vancouver, British Columbia on November 14 and 15, 2017. (*Conférence*)

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***official delegate*** means any person designated by a foreign state, foreign government or international organization who are invited to attend the Conference. (*délégué officiel*)

***relevant period*** means the period beginning on November 12, 2017 and ending on November 17, 2017. (*période visée*)




## Privileges and Immunities



**Ministers of Defence**

**2** 

- **(1)** During the relevant period, the official delegates of a foreign state or a foreign government, including Ministers of Defence and their representatives, and Chiefs of Defence Staff and their representatives, shall have in Canada to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Conference, the privileges and immunities set out in Sections 11, 12, 14, and 15 of Article IV of the Convention.

**Heads, senior officials and other officials of international organizations**

- **(2)** During the relevant period, the official delegates of international organizations shall have in Canada to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Conference, the following privileges and immunities:
	- **(a)** in the case of heads of international organizations and their representatives and senior officials, the privileges and immunities comparable to the privileges and immunities accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations; and
	- **(b)** in the case of other officials, the privileges and immunities set out in Section 18 of Article IV of the Convention.

**Experts**

- **(3)** During the relevant period, experts who are performing missions for international organizations shall have in Canada to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Conference, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


