> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2017/232.md)

# 29th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and Associated Meetings Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2017-232**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 2 November 2017

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to paragraphs 5(1)(c)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3241-E_hq_20787'>[a]</a></sup> and (f) to (h)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3241-E_hq_20786'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-3241-E_hq_20788'>[c]</a></sup>, makes the annexed 29th Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and Associated Meetings Privileges and Immunities Order.



<a name='fn_81000-2-3241-E_hq_20787'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3(2)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-3241-E_hq_20786'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3(3)<br />

<a name='fn_81000-2-3241-E_hq_20788'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />


## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Act*** means the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Loi*)

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the Act. (*Convention*)

***meetings*** means
- **(a)** the 29th meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol and the 11th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer to be held in Montreal, Quebec, from November 20 to 24, 2017;
- **(b)** the 59th meeting of the Implementation Committee under the Non-compliance Procedure for the Montreal Protocol to be held in Montreal, Quebec on November 18, 2017; and
- **(c)** the joint meeting of the Bureaux of the 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the 28th meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol to be held in Montreal, Quebec on November 19, 2017. (*réunions*)

***Montreal Protocol*** means The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer done at Montreal, Quebec on September 16, 1987, as amended from time to time. (*Protocole de Montréal*)

***relevant period*** means the period beginning on November 16, 2017 and ending on November 26, 2017. (*période visée*)

***Vienna Convention*** means the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations set out in Schedule I to the Act. (*Convention de Vienne* )

***Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer*** means the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer adopted at Vienna on March 22, 1985. (*Convention de Vienne pour la protection de la couche d’ozone*)




## Privileges and Immunities



**Representatives of foreign state**

**2** 

- **(1)** During the relevant period, representatives of a foreign state that participate in the meetings shall have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in sections 11, 12, 14 and 15 of Article IV of the Convention.

**Heads and senior officials of international organizations**

- **(2)** During the relevant period, heads of an international organization, as well as their alternates and other senior officials of an international organization shall have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the meetings, the privileges and immunities comparable to the privileges and immunities accorded to diplomatic agents under the Vienna Convention.

**Other officials**

- **(3)** During the relevant period, other officials of an international organization shall have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Section 18 of Article V of the Convention.

**Experts**

- **(4)** During the relevant period, experts who perform missions for an international organization shall have, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in relation to the meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


