> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2017/245.md)

# Proclamation Declaring that the Government Corporations Operation Act is Applicable to Development Finance Institute Canada (DFIC) Inc.

**SOR/2017-245**

Enabling authorities: 
- [GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS OPERATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md)

Date registered: 23 November 2017

----------

Julie Payette

[L.S.]

Canada

ELIZABETH THE SECOND, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories QUEEN, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith.


<p>Nathalie G. Drouin<br />Deputy Attorney General<br /></p>

Great Seal of Canada

TO ALL TO WHOM these presents shall come or whom the same may in any way concern,

GREETING:



## A Proclamation


Whereas Development Finance Institute Canada (DFIC) Inc. is a corporation incorporated under the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-44.md) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Export Development Canada;

Whereas pursuant to section 18 of the [Export Development Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-20.md), Export Development Canada is for all purposes an agent of Her Majesty in right of Canada and therefore, in accordance with the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), all of the issued shares of Development Finance Institute Canada (DFIC) Inc. are owned by Her Majesty in right of Canada;

And whereas, by Order in Council P.C. 2017-1232 of October 5, 2017, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council has directed that a Proclamation do issue, declaring that the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) is applicable to Development Finance Institute Canada (DFIC) Inc.;

Now know you that We, by and with the advice of Our Privy Council for Canada, do by this Our Proclamation declare that the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) is applicable to Development Finance Institute Canada (DFIC) Inc.

Of all which Our Loving Subjects and all others whom these presents may concern are required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.

In testimony whereof, We have caused this Our proclamation to be published and the Great Seal of Canada to be affixed to it.

WITNESS:

Our Right Trusty and Well-beloved Julie Payette, Chancellor and Principal Companion of Our Order of Canada, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Military Merit, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Merit of the Police Forces, Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada.



AT OUR GOVERNMENT HOUSE, in Our City of Ottawa, this tenth day of November in the year of Our Lord two thousand and seventeen and in the sixty-sixth year of Our Reign.

BY COMMAND,


<p>John Knubley<br />Deputy Registrar General of Canada<br /></p>


