> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2009/110.md)

# Glass Doors and Enclosures Regulations

**SOR/2009-110**

Enabling authorities: 
- [HAZARDOUS PRODUCTS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md)

Date registered: 2 April 2009

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_601548-e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md)<sup><a href='#fn_601548-e_hc'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Glass Doors and Enclosures Regulations.

<a name='fn_601548-e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 9, s. 2<br />

<a name='fn_601548-e_hc'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. H-3<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md).

***glass door or enclosure*** means the following products when they are for household use:
- **(a)** a bathtub or shower door or enclosure that is made of glass or that contains a pane of glass;
- **(b)** a storm door that is made of glass or that contains a pane of glass; and
- **(c)** an exterior door, other than a storm door, that contains a pane of glass that has an area greater than 0.5 m<sup>2</sup> and whose lowest edge is less than 900 mm from the bottom edge of the door.

***laminated glass*** means glass that is formed when two or more sheets of glass are bonded to an intervening layer or layers of plastic material.

***person responsible***, in respect of a glass door or enclosure, means
- **(a)** if the product is manufactured in Canada, the manufacturer who sells or advertises it; and
- **(b)** if the product is imported, the importer.

***safety glass*** means laminated, tempered or wired glass.

***safety glass standard*** means the standard CAN/CGSB‑12.1‑M90, entitled Tempered or Laminated Safety Glass, published in November 1990 by the Canadian General Standards Board.

***tempered glass*** means glass that has been treated chemically or thermally so that, on fracture, it disintegrates into many small granular pieces.

***wired glass*** means glass into which a wire mesh has been embedded.

***wired safety glass standard*** means the standard CAN/CGSB‑12.11‑M90, entitled Wired Safety Glass, published in November 1990 by the Canadian General Standards Board.




## Authorization



**Advertise, sell or import**

**2** A glass door or enclosure may be advertised, sold or imported if the glass contained in it is safety glass that meets the requirements of these Regulations.




## Safety Glass Requirements



**Requirements**

**3** Safety glass that is set out in column 1 of the table to this section, when tested in accordance with the applicable tests set out in column 2, must meet the requirements set out in column 3.
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Safety glass</th>
<th>Test</th>
<th>Requirement</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Laminated glass</td>
<td>(1) Boiling water test in paragraph 7.2.2 of the safety glass standard</td>
<td>(1) No bubbles or other defects develop beyond 12 mm from the outer edge of the glass or from any crack that develops.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>(2) Impact test in paragraph 7.2.3 of the safety glass standard</td>
<td>(2) No opening occurs that would permit free passage of a 75 mm diameter steel sphere.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Tempered glass</td>
<td>Impact test in paragraph 7.2.3 of the safety glass standard</td>
<td>If breakage occurs, the total mass of the 10 largest particles does not exceed the mass of 6 500 mm<sup>2</sup> of the original test specimen.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Wired glass</td>
<td>Impact test in paragraph 8.2.2 of the wired safety glass standard</td>
<td>**(a)** No opening occurs that would permit free passage of a 75 mm diameter steel sphere.

**(b)** The glass adjacent to each crack extending from the impact area is held in place by the reinforcing material.

**(c)** Small fragments of glass from both sides of the test specimen at or immediately around the point of impact may become detached, but no piece loosens or detaches from any other part of the glass.

</td>
</tr>
</table>





## Records



**Retention period**

**4** 

- **(1)** The person responsible must keep records that show that a glass door or enclosure meets the requirements of these Regulations, for a period of at least four years after the date of manufacture in Canada or the date of importation of the glass door or enclosure, as the case may be.

**Inspection**

- **(2)** The person responsible must provide an inspector with any records that the inspector requests in writing, within 15 days after receipt of the request.




## Repeal


**5** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


