> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2009/112.md)

# Corded Window Covering Products Regulations

**SOR/2009-112**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2010/c.%2021.md)

Date registered: 2 April 2009

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_a_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md)<sup><a href='#fn_b_e'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Corded Window Covering Products Regulations.

<a name='fn_a_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 9, s. 2<br />

<a name='fn_b_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. H-3<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md).

***corded window covering product*** means an interior window covering that incorporates a bead chain, cord or any type of flexible looped device in its operation.

***national standard*** means the standard CAN/CSA‑Z600 published by the Canadian Standards Association, entitled Safety of corded window covering products, as amended from time to time.

***person responsible*** means, in respect of a corded window covering product,
- **(a)** if the product is manufactured in Canada, the manufacturer who advertises or sells it; and
- **(b)** if the product is imported, the importer.




## Authorization



**Advertise, sell or import**

**2** A corded window covering product may be advertised, sold or imported if it meets the requirements of these Regulations.




## Prohibition



**No reference**

**3** No direct or indirect reference to the Act or these Regulations may be made on the label of a corded window covering product or in any advertisement for one.




## Requirements



**Safety requirements**

**4** A corded window covering product must meet the product safety requirements of section 4 of the national standard.




**Labelling and information requirements**

**5** A corded window covering product must meet the labelling and information requirements of section 5 of the national standard.




## Records



**Retention period**

**6** 

- **(1)** The person responsible must keep records that show that a corded window covering product meets the requirements of these Regulations, for a period of at least three years after the date of manufacture in Canada or the date of importation of the product, as the case may be.

**Inspection**

- **(2)** The person responsible must provide an inspector with any records that the inspector requests in writing, within 15 days after receipt of the request.




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**7** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


