> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2009/204.md)

# The Micronutrient Initiative Divestiture Regulations

**SOR/2009-204**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PUBLIC SERVICE SUPERANNUATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md)

- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 25 June 2009

----------

The Treasury Board, on the recommendation of the President of the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 42.1(1)(u)<sup><a href='#fn_609504-E_hq_1901'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md)<sup><a href='#fn_609504-E_hq_4875'>[b]</a></sup> and paragraph 7(2)(a) of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)<sup><a href='#fn_609504-E_hq_4876'>[c]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed The Micronutrient Initiative Divestiture Regulations.

<a name='fn_609504-E_hq_1901'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2003, c. 22, par. 225(z.19)<br />

<a name='fn_609504-E_hq_4875'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. P-36<br />

<a name='fn_609504-E_hq_4876'><sup>c</sup></a>: R.S., c. F-11<br />




**Application**

**1** 

- **(1)** These Regulations apply to a person who, by reason of the agreement dated December 1, 2001 between the International Development Research Centre, established under section 3 of the [International Development Research Centre Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/I/I-19.md), and The Micronutrient Initiative, incorporated by Letters Patent issued July 4, 2001 under the [Canada Corporations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1970/c.%20C-32.md), ceased to be deemed to be employed, on December 1, 2001, in the public service for the purposes of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md) (the “Act”) and became employed by The Micronutrient Initiative.

**Exception — person re-employed**

- **(2)** These Regulations do not apply to a person who becomes re-employed by The Micronutrient Initiative.




**When provisions are applicable**

**2** Sections 13 and 13.01 of the Act only apply to the person on or after the day on which they cease to be employed by The Micronutrient Initiative.




**Benefits for survivor and children**

**3** The survivor and children of the person who dies while employed by The Micronutrient Initiative are entitled to one of the following benefits to which they would have been entitled if the person had been employed in the public service:
- **(a)** the death benefit under subsection 12(8) of the Act; or
- **(b)** the allowances referred to in subsection 13(3) of the Act.




**Subsection 26(2) of the Act**

**4** For the purposes of subsection 26(2) of the Act, a person is deemed to cease to be employed in the public service on the day on which the person ceases to be employed by The Micronutrient Initiative.




**Subsection 10(5) of the Act**

**5** For the purposes of subsection 10(5) of the Act, the one-year period referred to in paragraph (a) of that subsection begins on the day on which the person ceases to be employed by The Micronutrient Initiative.




**Pensionable service**

**6** For the purposes of sections 13 and 13.01 of the Act, pensionable service includes the period of service that begins on the day on which the person ceases to be employed in the public service and that ends on the day on which they cease to be employed by The Micronutrient Initiative.




**Section 13 of the Act**

**7** For the purposes of section 13 of the Act, the age of the person when they cease to be employed in the public service is the age of that person on the day on which they cease to be employed by The Micronutrient Initiative.




## Coming into Force



**Registration**

**8** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


