> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2009/298.md)

# Vancouver 2010 Aviation Security Regulations

**SOR/2009-298**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AERONAUTICS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)

- [CANADIAN AIR TRANSPORT SECURITY AUTHORITY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%209,%20s.%202.md)

Date registered: 5 November 2009

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to sections 4.71<sup><a href='#fn_1108e_tc_4661'>[a]</a></sup> and 4.9<sup><a href='#fn_1108e_tc_4662'>[b]</a></sup> and subsection 7.6(1)<sup><a href='#fn_1108e_tc_4681'>[c]</a></sup> of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md)<sup><a href='#fn_1108e_tc_4663'>[d]</a></sup> and section 34 of the [Canadian Air Transport Security Authority Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%209,%20s.%202.md)<sup><a href='#fn_1108e_tc_4664'>[e]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Vancouver 2010 Aviation Security Regulations.

<a name='fn_1108e_tc_4661'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 15, s. 5<br />

<a name='fn_1108e_tc_4662'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 4, s. 7<br />

<a name='fn_1108e_tc_4681'><sup>c</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 15, s. 18<br />

<a name='fn_1108e_tc_4663'><sup>d</sup></a>: R.S., c. A-2<br />

<a name='fn_1108e_tc_4664'><sup>e</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 9, s. 2<br />




## Overview



**Overview**

**1** These Regulations contain measures to enhance aviation security during the Vancouver 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games.




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**2** 

- **(1)** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***cargo*** means goods other than baggage or mail. For greater certainty, goods that are necessary for the operation or safety of an aircraft, such as extra fuel, manuals or safety kits, are not cargo.

***hold baggage*** means goods that belong to a passenger and to which the passenger will not have access on board an aircraft.

**Terminology: [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md)**

- **(2)** Unless the context requires otherwise, words and expressions used in these Regulations have the same meaning as in section 1 of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md).




## Application



**Flights to or from specified areas**

**3** These Regulations apply in respect of flights to or from aerodromes located in the areas specified in Schedule 1. They do not, however, apply in respect of flights that
- **(a)** are transporting persons or goods that are subject to screening in accordance with the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md) and the security measures associated with those Regulations;
- **(b)** are conducted by a police service;
- **(c)** are conducted under the authority the Minister of Transport;
- **(d)** are conducted under the authority of the Minister of National Defence; or
- **(e)** are conducted by the Canadian Coast Guard.




## Screening



**Designated aerodromes**

**4** 

- **(1)** The aerodromes listed in Schedule 2 are designated for the purposes of the [Canadian Air Transport Security Authority Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%209,%20s.%202.md).

**Mandate**

- **(2)** CATSA’s mandate at the aerodromes listed in Schedule 2 is to conduct screenings in accordance with these Regulations.




**Additional checkpoints — mandatory**

**5** CATSA must
- **(a)** establish screening checkpoints at the heliport and the FBO facility at Vancouver International Airport; and
- **(b)** conduct screenings at those checkpoints in accordance with these Regulations instead of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md) and the security measures associated with those Regulations.




**Additional checkpoints — optional**

**6** 

- **(1)** To deal with increased air traffic, CATSA is authorized to establish additional screening checkpoints away from the air terminal building of an aerodrome listed in Schedule 3 if
	- **(a)** the aerodrome is located in an area specified in Schedule 1; or
	- **(b)** the checkpoints are used exclusively for flights to aerodromes located in the areas specified in Schedule 1.

**Application of these Regulations**

- **(2)** CATSA must conduct screenings at the additional checkpoints in accordance with these Regulations instead of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md) and the security measures associated with those Regulations.




**Screening requirements**

**7** 

- **(1)** The operator of an aircraft must ensure that the following persons and goods are presented to CATSA for screening:
	- **(a)** passengers and their baggage;
	- **(b)** crew members and their baggage; and
	- **(c)** cargo.

**Credentials exception**

- **(2)** A crew member and their baggage need not be presented to CATSA for screening if the crew member
	- **(a)** is in possession of an active restricted area identity card that has been issued to them; or
	- **(b)** is registered with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Vancouver 2010 Integrated Security Unit.

**Short turn-around exception**

- **(3)** Persons and goods that have been screened and are on board an aircraft arriving at an aerodrome located in an area specified in Schedule 1 need not be presented to CATSA for another screening if
	- **(a)** the aircraft is arriving at aerodrome for the purpose of deplaning passengers or unloading goods;
	- **(b)** no persons enplane and no goods are loaded on the aircraft at the aerodrome;
	- **(c)** only persons authorized by the operator of the aircraft have access to the persons and goods that remain on board the aircraft; and
	- **(d)** the aircraft departs from the aerodrome as soon as possible after deplaning passengers or unloading goods.

**In-transit exception**

- **(4)** Persons and goods that have been screened and are on board an aircraft arriving at an aerodrome located in an area specified in Schedule 1 need not be presented to CATSA for another screening if
	- **(a)** the persons and goods are arriving at the aerodrome for the purpose of taking another flight;
	- **(b)** the persons and goods are segregated from persons and goods that have not been screened in accordance with these Regulations; and
	- **(c)** only persons authorized by the operator of the aircraft on which the persons and goods arrive and by the operator of the aircraft on which the persons and goods depart have access to the persons and goods.




**Prohibitions**

**8** The operator of an aircraft who is not an air carrier must not transport any persons or goods that must be presented to CATSA for screening under section 7 unless those persons and goods have been screened in accordance with these Regulations. Air carriers are subject to subsection 4.85(3) of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md).




**Persons and carry-on baggage**

**9** If persons and carry-on baggage are presented to CATSA for screening, CATSA must screen them for
- **(a)** goods, other than liquids, gels and aerosols, that are listed or described in the general list of prohibited items; and
- **(b)** other goods that pose an immediate threat to aviation security.




**Presentation of baggage**

**10** If the operator of an aircraft presents baggage to CATSA for screening, the operator must identify the baggage to CATSA as being either carry-on baggage or hold baggage.




**Unclassified baggage**

**11** If baggage is presented to CATSA for screening and it is unclear whether it is carry-on baggage or hold baggage,
- **(a)** CATSA must screen the baggage as carry-on baggage; and
- **(b)** the operator of the aircraft transporting the baggage must treat it as carry-on baggage.




**Hold baggage and cargo**

**12** If hold baggage and cargo are presented to CATSA for screening, CATSA must screen them for
- **(a)** explosive substances;
- **(b)** incendiary devices; and
- **(c)** other goods that pose an immediate threat to aviation security.




**Authorized means**

**13** To conduct the screenings referred to in sections 9 and 12, CATSA may use
- **(a)** physical searches;
- **(b)** metal detection equipment;
- **(c)** X-ray equipment; and
- **(d)** explosives detection equipment.




**Access to cargo**

**14** 

- **(1)** If cargo must be opened to facilitate screening by CATSA, the operator of the aircraft who requested the screening must open the cargo.

**Repackaging**

- **(2)** If cargo referred to in subsection (1) is cleared by CATSA, the operator must repackage it for transportation.




## Access to Passengers and Goods that Have Been Screened



**Access after screening**

**15** The operator of an aircraft must ensure that, before a flight departs, passengers and goods that have been screened are segregated from persons and goods that have not been screened and that only persons authorized by the operator have access to the passengers and goods.




**Access to hold baggage or cargo**

**16** The operator of an aircraft must ensure that, before a flight departs, passengers who have been screened do not have access to hold baggage or cargo.




**Search of conveyances**

**17** 

- **(1)** If the operator of an aircraft uses a conveyance to segregate passengers and goods in accordance with section 15 or to transport passengers and goods that have been screened from a screening checkpoint to the aircraft, the operator must, before screening operations start, search the conveyance for goods that could pose a threat to aviation security.

**Subsequent search**

- **(2)** The operator of the aircraft must search the conveyance again for goods that could pose a threat to aviation security if, after screening operations have started,
	- **(a)** a person who is not authorized by the operator of the aircraft gains access to the conveyance;
	- **(b)** the conveyance has not been in the continuous care of the operator; or
	- **(c)** the conveyance is used to transport persons or goods that have not been screened.




## Waiting Areas



**Application**

**18** Sections 19 to 24 apply only if, for the purposes of section 15, an operator of an aircraft uses an area of an aerodrome to segregate passengers and goods.




**Waiting area search**

**19** CATSA must, before screening operations start, search an area referred to in section 18 for goods that could pose a threat to aviation security.




**Authorized access**

**20** CATSA must not permit a person to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into an area referred to in section 18 unless CATSA ensures that the person
- **(a)** is authorized to enter the area by an operator of an aircraft who is using the area;
- **(b)** is authorized to enter the area by the aerodrome operator; or
- **(c)** is authorized by the Minister to carry out an inspection under section 8.7 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md) and presents their official credentials.




**Prohibited items**

**21** 

- **(1)** CATSA must not permit a person to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into an area referred to in section 18 unless CATSA ensures that the person is not in possession or control of
	- **(a)** any goods, other than liquids, gels and aerosols, that are listed or described in the general list of prohibited items; or
	- **(b)** any goods that pose an immediate threat to aviation security.

**Exception**

- **(2)** This section does not apply in respect a person, other than a passenger, who
	- **(a)** is in possession of an active restricted area identity card that has been issued to them; or
	- **(b)** is registered with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Vancouver 2010 Integrated Security Unit.




**Permitted items**

**22** CATSA may permit a person in possession or control of a weapon, an explosive substance or an incendiary device to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into an area referred to in section 18 if the person is carrying or has access to the weapon, explosive substance or incendiary device in accordance with these Regulations, a security measure, an emergency direction or an interim order.




**Medically necessary goods**

**23** CATSA may permit a person in possession or control of goods listed or described in the general list of prohibited items to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into an area referred to in section 18 if the goods are medically necessary and the person declares them to CATSA.




**Medical kits**

**24** CATSA may permit a health care professional in possession or control of a medical kit that contains goods listed or described in the general list of prohibited items to pass beyond a screening checkpoint into an area referred to in section 18 if CATSA ensures that the kit does not include sharp or cutting instruments.




## Search of Aircraft



**Search by operator**

**25** 

- **(1)** The operator of an aircraft must, before enplaning passengers or loading goods for a flight, ensure that the aircraft is searched for goods that could pose a threat to aviation security.

**Where and what to search**

- **(2)** For greater certainty, the search must include the aircraft cabin, all cargo holds, all other storage spaces and any goods on board the aircraft.




**Credentials**

**26** A person who conducts a search referred to in section 25 must
- **(a)** be in possession of an active restricted area identity card that has been issued to them; or
- **(b)** be registered by the operator of the aircraft with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Vancouver 2010 Integrated Security Unit.




**Search by police**

**27** 

- **(1)** The Royal Canadian Mounted Police or the police service with jurisdiction at an aerodrome may also search an aircraft referred to in section 25 as well as any goods on board the aircraft for goods that could pose a threat to aviation security. They may do so either independently or at the same time as the operator of the aircraft.

**Access to aircraft**

- **(2)** The operator of the aircraft must provide the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or the police service with access to the aircraft.




**Authorized means**

**28** To search an aircraft, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or the police service with jurisdiction at an aerodrome may use
- **(a)** physical searches;
- **(b)** metal detection equipment;
- **(c)** explosives detection equipment; and
- **(d)** explosives detection dogs.




**Access after search**

**29** After an aircraft has been searched, the operator of the aircraft must ensure that only persons authorized by the operator have access to the aircraft.




## Access to Goods on Board an Aircraft



**Passenger access**

**30** 

- **(1)** The operator of an aircraft must ensure that passengers for a flight do not have access to any of the following goods on board the aircraft:
	- **(a)** goods, other than liquids, gels and aerosols, that are listed or described in the general list of prohibited items;
	- **(b)** hold baggage; and
	- **(c)** cargo.

**Cutlery exception**

- **(2)** The operator of an aircraft may provide passengers with knives during an in-flight meal service.




**Application**

**31** 

- **(1)** This section applies in respect of flights that are conducted by operators of aircraft who are not air carriers. Air carriers and persons on board flights conducted by air carriers remain subject to Part 2 of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md).

**Firearms**

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), a person must not be in possession or control of or have access to a firearm on board an aircraft.

**Exception for pilots**

- **(3)** The pilot-in-command of an aircraft may be in possession or control of or have access to an unloaded firearm on board the aircraft if the firearm is required for survival purposes.




## Transportation of Firearms, Explosive Substances and Incendiary Devices



**Application**

**32** Sections 33 to 35 apply in respect of flights that are conducted by operators of aircraft who are not air carriers. Air carriers and persons on board flights conducted by air carriers remain subject to Part 2 of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md).




**Transport or tender of loaded firearm**

**33** 

- **(1)** A person must not transport or tender for transportation by the operator of an aircraft goods that contain a loaded firearm.

**Transport of loaded firearm**

- **(2)** The operator of an aircraft must not knowingly allow a person to transport goods that contain a loaded firearm.




**Tender of unloaded firearm**

**34** 

- **(1)** A person must not tender for transportation by the operator of an aircraft goods that contain an unloaded firearm unless the person declares to the operator that the firearm is unloaded.

**Transport of unloaded firearm**

- **(2)** The operator of an aircraft must not knowingly transport goods that contain an unloaded firearm unless the firearm is transported as hold baggage or cargo.




**Tender of explosive substance or incendiary device**

**35** 

- **(1)** A person must not transport or tender for transportation by the operator of an aircraft goods that contain an explosive substance, other than ammunition, or an incendiary device unless the person notifies the operator before arriving at the aerodrome.

**Acceptance for transport**

- **(2)** The operator of an aircraft must not accept for transportation goods that contain an explosive substance, other than ammunition, or an incendiary device unless the operator was notified in accordance with subsection (1).

**Transport of explosive substance or incendiary device**

- **(3)** The operator of an aircraft must not knowingly transport goods that contain an explosive substance or an incendiary device unless the substance or device is transported as hold baggage or cargo.




## Carriage of and Access to Firearms, Explosive Substances and Incendiary Devices at Aerodromes



**Application**

**36** 

- **(1)** Sections 37 to 39 apply to aerodrome operators that do not serve air carriers, and to persons at the aerodromes operated by those operators, if the aerodromes are
	- **(a)** aerodromes located in the areas specified in Schedule 1; or
	- **(b)** aerodromes from which flights to aerodromes located in the areas specified in Schedule 1 are conducted.

**Related provisions**

- **(2)** Aerodrome operators that serve air carriers, and persons at the aerodromes operated by those operators, remain subject to Part 2 of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md).




**Firearms**

**37** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) to (5), a person must not carry or have access to a firearm at an aerodrome.

**Exception for tendering for transportation**

- **(2)** A person may carry or have access to an unloaded firearm at an aerodrome for the purpose of tendering it for transportation.

**Exception for operators of aircraft**

- **(3)** The operator of an aircraft or an employee of the operator may carry or have access to an unloaded firearm at an aerodrome if the firearm was tendered to the operator for transportation in accordance with subsection 34(1).

**Exception for peace officers**

- **(4)** A peace officer may carry or have access to a loaded firearm at an aerodrome while in the performance of their duties.

**Exception for licensed persons**

- **(5)** A person who holds a licence to carry a firearm issued under the laws of Canada may carry or have access to a firearm at an aerodrome if the person
	- **(a)** is engaged in the protection of persons or property at the aerodrome; or
	- **(b)** is employed by the aerodrome operator for the control of animals at the aerodrome.




**Explosive substances or incendiary devices**

**38** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) to (4), a person must not carry or have access to an explosive substance or an incendiary device at an aerodrome.

**Exception for tendering for transportation**

- **(2)** A person may carry or have access to an explosive substance or an incendiary device at an aerodrome for the purpose of tendering it for transportation if the person notified the operator of the aircraft in accordance with subsection 35(1).

**Exception for operators of aircraft**

- **(3)** The operator of an aircraft or an employee of the operator may carry or have access to an explosive substance or an incendiary device at an aerodrome if the substance or device was accepted for transportation by the operator in accordance with subsection 35(2).

**Exception for authorized persons**

- **(4)** A person may carry or have access to an explosive substance or an incendiary device at an aerodrome if the person is authorized to do so by the aerodrome operator.




**Authorization**

**39** An aerodrome operator may authorize a person to carry or have access to an explosive substance or an incendiary device at the aerodrome if
- **(a)** the substance or device will be used at the aerodrome
	- **(i)** for excavation, demolition or construction,
	- **(ii)** in fireworks displays,
	- **(iii)** by persons operating explosives detection equipment or handling explosives detection dogs,
	- **(iv)** by a police service, or
	- **(v)** by military personnel; and
- **(b)** the aerodrome operator has reasonable grounds to believe that the safety of the aerodrome and of persons and aircraft at the aerodrome will not be jeopardized by the presence of the substance or device at the aerodrome.




## Notifications



**Application**

**40** 

- **(1)** This section applies to operators of aircraft who are not air carriers. Air carriers remain subject to Part 4 of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md).

**Notify Minister**

- **(2)** The operator of an aircraft must immediately notify the Minister if any of the following events occur:
	- **(a)** a hijacking or attempted hijacking of a flight;
	- **(b)** the discovery, on board an aircraft used to conduct a flight, of a weapon other than a firearm that is permitted under these Regulations;
	- **(c)** the discovery, on board an aircraft used to conduct a flight, of an explosive substance or an incendiary device other than a substance or device that is permitted under these Regulations;
	- **(d)** the discovery, during a search required under section 17, of a weapon other than a firearm that is permitted under these Regulations;
	- **(e)** the discovery, during a search required under section 17, of an explosive substance or an incendiary device other than a substance or device that is permitted under these Regulations;
	- **(f)** an explosion on board an aircraft used to conduct a flight;
	- **(g)** a specific threat against an aircraft used to conduct a flight;
	- **(h)** a specific threat against any part of an aerodrome or an aviation facility that is under the operator’s control for the purposes of conducting a flight; or
	- **(i)** an aviation security incident involving a peace officer in any part of an aerodrome or an aviation facility that is under the operator’s control for the purposes of conducting a flight.

**Notify aerodrome operator**

- **(3)** If a weapon other than a firearm that is permitted under these Regulations is discovered in any part of an aerodrome that is under the control of the operator of an aircraft for the purposes of conducting a flight, the operator must immediately notify the aerodrome operator.




**Notify Minister**

**41** An air carrier must immediately notify the Minister if any of the following goods are discovered during a search required under section 17:
- **(a)** a weapon other than a firearm that is permitted under these Regulations; or
- **(b)** an explosive substance or an incendiary device other than a substance or device that is permitted under these Regulations.




**Application**

**42** 

- **(1)** This section applies to aerodrome operators that do not serve air carriers, if the aerodromes operated by those operators are
	- **(a)** aerodromes located in the areas specified in Schedule 1; or
	- **(b)** aerodromes from which flights to aerodromes located in the areas specified in Schedule 1 are conducted.

**Related provisions**

- **(2)** Aerodrome operators that serve air carriers remain subject to Part 4 of the [Canadian Aviation Security Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/111.md).

**Notify Minister**

- **(3)** An aerodrome operator must immediately notify the Minister if any of the following events occur:
	- **(a)** the discovery at the aerodrome of a weapon other than a firearm that is permitted under these Regulations;
	- **(b)** the discovery at the aerodrome of an explosive substance or an incendiary device other than a substance or device that is permitted under these Regulations;
	- **(c)** an explosion at the aerodrome other than an explosion that is carried out for a purpose referred to in subparagraph 39(a)(i) or (ii) or that is carried out by persons referred to in subparagraph 39(a)(iii) or (v) or by a police service referred to in subparagraph 39(a)(iv);
	- **(d)** a specific threat against the aerodrome; or
	- **(e)** an aviation security incident involving a peace officer in any part of the aerodrome.




**Persons and carry-on baggage**

**43** 

- **(1)** CATSA must immediately notify the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or the police service with jurisdiction at the aerodrome, and the operator of the aircraft, the aerodrome operator and the Minister, if it discovers any of the following goods while screening persons and carry-on baggage for a flight in accordance with these Regulations:
	- **(a)** a weapon other than a firearm that is permitted under these Regulations; or
	- **(b)** an explosive substance or an incendiary device other than a substance or device that is permitted under these Regulations.

**Hold baggage or cargo**

- **(2)** CATSA must immediately notify the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or the police service with jurisdiction at the aerodrome, and the operator of the aircraft, the aerodrome operator and the Minister, if it discovers any of the following goods while screening hold baggage or cargo for a flight in accordance with these Regulations:
	- **(a)** a loaded firearm; or
	- **(b)** an explosive substance, other than ammunition, or an incendiary device.

**Incident involving peace officer**

- **(3)** CATSA must immediately notify the operator of the aircraft, the aerodrome operator and the Minister if an aviation security incident involving a peace officer occurs in any part of an aerodrome where screening is being conducted by CATSA for a flight in accordance with these Regulations.




## Designated Provisions



**Designated provisions**

**44** 

- **(1)** A provision of these Regulations that is set out in column 1 of Schedule 4 is designated as a provision the contravention of which may be dealt with under and in accordance with the procedure set out in sections 7.7 to 8.2 of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md).

**Amounts payable**

- **(2)** The amount set out in column 2 or column 3 of Schedule 4 is prescribed as the maximum amount payable by an individual or corporation, as the case may be, in respect of a contravention of the provision set out in column 1.




**Notice of contravention**

**45** A notice referred to in subsection 7.7(1) of the [Aeronautics Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-2.md) must specify the information set out in section 4 of the [Designated Provisions Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/112.md).




## Cessation of Effect



**March 3, 2010**

**46** The following provisions cease to have effect at 23:59:59 Pacific standard time on March 3, 2010:
- **(a)** subsection 4(2);
- **(b)** sections 5 to 24;
- **(c)** paragraphs 40(2)(d) and (e); and
- **(d)** sections 41 and 43.




## Repeal


**47** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force



**January 29, 2010**

**48** These Regulations come into force at 00:00:01 Pacific standard time on January 29, 2010.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Section 3, subsection 6(1), section 7 and subsections 36(1) and 42(1))**
## Specified Areas

**Area 1**

Area 1 is bounded by a line

**(a)** starting at N49°07′14.71″, W122°52′17.99″;



**(b)** from there to N49°07′14.71″, W122°51′19.49″;



**(c)** from there to N49°00′07.50″, W122°51′19.49″;



**(d)** from there along the border between Canada and the United States to N49°00′07.50″, W123°19′54.97″;



**(e)** from there clockwise along the arc of a circle of 13 miles radius centred on N49°11′42.00″, W123°10′55.00″, the airport reference point of Vancouver International Airport, to N49°20′11.18″, W123°25′57.17″;



**(f)** from there to N49°20′08.72″, W123°15′37.38″;



**(g)** from there to N49°20′04.85″, W123°03′25.40″;



**(h)** from there to N49°18′50.00″, W122°54′20.04″; and



**(i)** from there clockwise along the arc of a circle of 13 miles radius centred on N49°11′42.00″, W123°10′55.00″, the airport reference point of Vancouver International Airport, to N49°07′14.71″, W122°52′17.99″.





**Area 2**

Area 2 is bounded by a line

**(a)** starting at N49°47′41.00″, W123°19′44.00″;



**(b)** from there to N49°56′25.41″, W123°18′02.26″;



**(c)** from there counterclockwise along the arc of a circle of 13 miles radius centred on N50°04′46.00″, W123°02′35.00″ to N49°51′51.39″, W123°00′19.16″;



**(d)** from there to N49°41′30.00″, W123°00′00.00″;



**(e)** from there to N49°32′15.00″, W123°06′14.00″;



**(f)** from there to N49°18′50.00″, W123°01′44.09″;



**(g)** from there to N49°20′04.85″, W123°03′25.40″;



**(h)** from there to N49°20′10.99″, W123°25′56.81″;



**(i)** from there to N49°34′06.00″, W123°29′55.00″; and



**(j)** from there to N49°47′41.00″, W123°19′44.00″.





**Area 3**

Area 3 is bounded by a line

**(a)** starting at N50°17′20.18″, W122°57′28.01″;



**(b)** from there to N50°21′38.66″, W122°49′50.81″;



**(c)** from there clockwise along the arc of a circle of 13 miles radius centred on N50°18′09.00″, W122°44′16.00″, the aerodrome reference point of Pemberton, to N50°14′33.29″, W122°38′51.10″;



**(d)** from there to N50°10′30.93″, W122°44′27.55″; and



**(e)** from there clockwise along the arc of a circle of 13 miles radius centred on N50°04′46.00″, W123°02′35.00″ to N50°17′20.18″, W122°57′28.01″.







### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Section 4)**
## Designated Aerodromes
<table>
<tr>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Location Indicator</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Boundary Bay</td>
<td>CZBB</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Langley Regional</td>
<td>CYNJ</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nanaimo Harbour</td>
<td>CAC8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Nanaimo Harbour (Departure Bay)</td>
<td>CAC8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pemberton</td>
<td>CYPS</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Pitt Meadows</td>
<td>CYPK</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Port Hardy</td>
<td>CYZT</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Powell River</td>
<td>CYPW</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Squamish</td>
<td>CYSE</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vancouver Harbour</td>
<td>CYHC</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vancouver Harbour (Public) — heliport</td>
<td>CBC7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vancouver International Airport — floatplane</td>
<td>CAM9</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Victoria Harbour</td>
<td>CYWH</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Victoria Harbour (Camel Point) — heliport</td>
<td>CBF7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Whistler (Municipal)</td>
<td>CBE9</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE 3** 
**(Subsection 6(1))**
## Aerodromes with Additional Screening Checkpoints
<table>
<tr>
<th>Name</th>
<th>Location Indicator</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Abbotsford Airport</td>
<td>CYXX</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Calgary International Airport</td>
<td>CYYC</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kelowna Airport</td>
<td>CYLW</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Vancouver International Airport</td>
<td>CYVR</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Victoria International Airport</td>
<td>CYYJ</td>
</tr>
</table>




### **SCHEDULE 4** 
**(Section 44)**
## Designated Provisions
<table>
<tr>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>Maximum Amount Payable ($)</th>
<th>Maximum Amount Payable ($)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Designated Provision</th>
<th>Individual</th>
<th>Corporation</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Paragraph 5(a)</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Paragraph 5(b)</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 6(2)</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 7(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 8</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 9</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 10</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Paragraph 11(a)</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Paragraph 11(b)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 12</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 14(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 14(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 15</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 16</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 17(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 17(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 19</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 20</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 21</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 25(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 26</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 27(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 29</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 30</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 31(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 33(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 33(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 34(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 34(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 35(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 35(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 35(3)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 37(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 38(1)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 40(2)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 40(3)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Section 41</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 42(3)</td>
<td>5,000</td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 43(1)</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 43(2)</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Subsection 43(3)</td>
<td></td>
<td>25,000</td>
</tr>
</table>


