> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2009/336.md)

# G8 Summit Privileges and Immunities Order, 2010

**SOR/2009-336**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 10 December 2009

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_612776-E_hq_8205'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_612776-E_hq_8206'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed G8 Summit Privileges and Immunities Order, 2010.

<a name='fn_612776-E_hq_8205'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 10<br />

<a name='fn_612776-E_hq_8206'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***experts performing missions for the Organization*** means governmental or intergovernmental experts who are invited by the Organization to attend the Meeting and the preparatory meetings. (*experts en mission pour l’Organisation*)

***Meeting*** means the meeting of the Organization to be held in Huntsville, Ontario from June 25 to 27, 2010. (*réunion*)

***Organization*** means the intergovernmental conference of the eight leading industrialized countries, also known as the G8. (*Organisation*)

***preparatory meetings*** means the meetings of the Ministers of Finance of the seven leading industrialized countries to be held in Iqaluit, Nunavut from February 5 to 6, 2010 and the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the eight leading industrialized countries to be held in Gatineau, Quebec from March 29 to 30, 2010. (*réunions préparatoires*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** 

- **(1)** During the period beginning on January 29, 2010 and ending on February 13, 2010, the period beginning on March 22, 2010 and ending on April 6, 2010 and the period beginning on June 18, 2010 and ending on July 4, 2010, the Organization shall have in Canada the legal capacity of a body corporate and the privileges and immunities set out in sections 2 to 5 of Article II of the Convention.

- **(2)** During the periods referred to in subsection (1), representatives of states and governments that are members of the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting and the preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in sections 11, 12 and 14 to 16 of Article IV of the Convention.

- **(3)** During the periods referred to in subsection (1), experts performing missions for the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting and the preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


