> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2010/110.md)

# Notice Respecting the 2010 G8 and G20 Summits Railway Transportation Security Measures

**SOR/2010-110**

Enabling authorities: 
- [RAILWAY SAFETY ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2032%20(4th%20Supp.).md)

Date registered: 19 May 2010

----------

The Minister of Transport, pursuant to subsection 39.1(2)<sup><a href='#fn_1171e_tc_4784'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Railway Safety Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2032%20(4th%20Supp.).md)<sup><a href='#fn_1171e_tc_4785'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Notice Respecting the 2010 G8 and G20 Summits Railway Transportation Security Measures.

<a name='fn_1171e_tc_4784'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1999, c. 9, s. 30<br />

<a name='fn_1171e_tc_4785'><sup>b</sup></a>: R.S., c. 32 (4th Supp.)<br />

Ottawa, May 18, 2010


<p>JOHN BAIRD<br />*Minister of Transport*<br /></p>




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** 

- **(1)** The following definitions apply in this Notice.

***G8 security zone*** means the area of land comprising
- **(a)** the portion of the Canadian National Railway Company railway between mile markers 145.2 and 147.2 of the Newmarket Subdivision; and
- **(b)** the Huntsville Train Station.

***G20 security zone*** means the area comprising the portions of Union Station in Toronto that are owned, controlled, leased or operated by a railway company and the portion of the Union Station Rail Corridor between West Zone mile marker 1.6 and East Zone mile marker 1.2 of the Toronto Terminals Railway Company.

**G8/G20 period**

- **(2)** For the purposes of this Notice, the G8/G20 period begins on June 23, 2010 and ends on June 27, 2010.




## Requirement



**Railway companies**

**2** Every railway company operating a railway within the G8 security zone or the G20 security zone during the G8/G20 period is required to carry out the 2010 G8 and G20 Summits Railway Transportation Security Measures in relation to its railway operations.




## Repeal


**3** This Notice is repealed on September 27, 2010.




## Coming into Force



**Publication**

***4** This Notice comes into force on the day on which it is published in the Canada Gazette, Part II.

<a name='fn_Ind14E6_hq_9182'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force June 9, 2010.]<br />


