> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2010/127.md)

# Northern Canada Vessel Traffic Services Zone Regulations

**SOR/2010-127**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA SHIPPING ACT, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md)

Date registered: 10 June 2010

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport, pursuant to paragraphs 136(1)(a)<sup><a href='#fn_1084e_tc_4657'>[a]</a></sup>, (b)<sup><a href='#fn_1084e_tc_4657'>[a]</a></sup> and (i)<sup><a href='#fn_1084e_tc_4657'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md)<sup><a href='#fn_1084e_tc_4658'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Northern Canada Vessel Traffic Services Zone Regulations.

<a name='fn_1084e_tc_4657'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2005, c. 29, s. 18<br />

<a name='fn_1084e_tc_4658'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 2001, c. 26<br />




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Canada Shipping Act, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md).

***berth*** includes a wharf, a pier, an anchorage and a mooring buoy.

***dangerous goods*** means the substances, materials and articles covered by the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code.

***NORDREG Zone*** means the Northern Canada Vessel Traffic Services Zone established under section 2.

***oil*** has the same meaning as in section 165 of the Act.

***pollutant*** has the same meaning as in section 185 of the Act.

***SOLAS*** means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, and the Protocol of 1988 relating to the Convention, as amended from time to time.




## Northern Canada Vessel Traffic Services Zone



**Prescribed zone**

**2** The Northern Canada Vessel Traffic Services Zone is established. It consists of
- **(a)** the shipping safety control zones prescribed by the [Shipping Safety Control Zones Order](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/301-400/C.R.C.,%20c.%20356.md);
- **(b)** the waters of Ungava Bay, Hudson Bay and Kugmallit Bay that are not in a shipping safety control zone;
- **(c)** the waters of James Bay;
- **(d)** the waters of the Koksoak River from Ungava Bay to Kuujjuaq;
- **(e)** the waters of Feuilles Bay from Ungava Bay to Tasiujaq;
- **(f)** the waters of Chesterfield Inlet that are not within a shipping safety control zone, and the waters of Baker Lake; and
- **(g)** the waters of the Moose River from James Bay to Moosonee.




## Prescribed Classes of Vessels



**Subsections 126(1) and (3) of the Act**

**3** The following vessels are prescribed as classes of vessels for the purposes of subsections 126(1) and (3) of the Act in respect of the NORDREG Zone:
- **(a)** vessels of 300 gross tonnage or more;
- **(b)** vessels that are engaged in towing or pushing another vessel, if the combined gross tonnage of the vessel and the vessel being towed or pushed is 500 gross tonnage or more; and
- **(c)** vessels that are carrying as cargo a pollutant or dangerous goods, or that are engaged in towing or pushing a vessel that is carrying as cargo a pollutant or dangerous goods.




## Obligation



**Master**

**4** The master of a vessel of a class prescribed by section 3 must ensure that the requirements of sections 5 to 10 are met in respect of the vessel.




## Reports



**Type of report**

**5** 

- **(1)** Every report required by any of sections 6 to 9 must begin with the term “NORDREG” and be followed by whichever of the following two letters corresponds to the report:
	- **(a)** “SP”, in the case of a sailing plan report;
	- **(b)** “PR”, in the case of a position report;
	- **(c)** “FR”, in the case of a final report;
	- **(d)** “DR”, in the case of a deviation report.

**Content of report**

- **(2)** The report must include the applicable designators required by sections 6 to 9 and set out in column 1 of the schedule, followed by the information that is about the subject set out in column 2 and that is specified in column 3.




**Sailing plan report**

**6** 

- **(1)** A sailing plan report must be provided
	- **(a)** when a vessel is about to enter the NORDREG Zone;
	- **(b)** more than one hour but not more than two hours before a vessel departs from a berth within the NORDREG Zone, unless the vessel is moving to another berth in the same port; and
	- **(c)** immediately before a vessel gets underway within the NORDREG Zone, if the vessel
		- **(i)** has been stranded,
		- **(ii)** has stopped as a result of a breakdown in the main propulsion or steering system, or
		- **(iii)** has been involved in a collision.

**Designators**

- **(2)** The sailing plan report must include
	- **(a)** in the circumstances set out in paragraph (1)(a), the designators A, B, either C or D, E, F, G, H, I, L, O, P, Q, S, T, W and X;
	- **(b)** in the circumstances set out in paragraph (1)(b), the designators A, B, either C or D, H, I, L, O, P, Q, S, T, W and X; and
	- **(c)** in the circumstances set out in paragraph (1)(c), the designators A, B, either C or D, I, L, O, P, Q, S, T, W and X.

**Exception to paragraph (2)(a)**

- **(3)** If the vessel is about to enter the NORDREG Zone directly from the Eastern Canada Vessel Traffic Services Zone and has obtained a clearance issued under paragraph 126(3)(a) of the Act with respect to that zone, the designators O, Q and T do not need to be included.

**Exception to paragraphs (2)(b) and (c)**

- **(4)** In the case of a report required by paragraph (1)(b) or (c), the designators O, P, Q, S, T, W and X do not need to be included if the corresponding information specified in column 3 of the schedule has not changed since the previous sailing plan report.




**Position report**

**7** 

- **(1)** A position report must be provided
	- **(a)** immediately after a vessel enters the NORDREG Zone; and
	- **(b)** daily at 1600 Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), if a vessel is underway within the NORDREG Zone, unless the information required by regulation 19-1, Long-range identification and tracking of ships, of Chapter V of SOLAS, is being transmitted in accordance with that regulation.

**Additional position report**

- **(2)** A position report must also be provided as soon as feasible after a vessel’s master becomes aware of any of the following, if the vessel is within or about to enter the NORDREG Zone:
	- **(a)** another vessel in apparent difficulty;
	- **(b)** any obstruction to navigation;
	- **(c)** an aid to navigation that is not functioning properly or is damaged, out of position or missing;
	- **(d)** any ice or weather conditions that are hazardous to safe navigation; and
	- **(e)** a pollutant in the water.

**Designators**

- **(3)** The position report must include the following designators:
	- **(a)** A, B, either C or D, E, F and S; and
	- **(b)** X, in the case of a position report required by subsection (2).




**Final report**

**8** 

- **(1)** A final report must be provided
	- **(a)** on the arrival of a vessel at a berth within the NORDREG Zone; and
	- **(b)** immediately before a vessel exits the NORDREG Zone.

**Designators**

- **(2)** The final report must include the designators A and K.




**Deviation report**

**9** 

- **(1)** A deviation report must be provided when
	- **(a)** a vessel’s position varies significantly from the position that was expected based on the sailing plan report; or
	- **(b)** a vessel’s intended voyage changes from the sailing plan report.

**Designators**

- **(2)** The deviation report must include
	- **(a)** the designators A, B, and either C or D; and
	- **(b)** the other designators included in the sailing plan report, if the corresponding information specified in column 3 of the schedule has changed since that report.




**Address of report**

**10** Every report must be addressed to NORDREG CANADA and be provided to one of the Marine Communications and Traffic Services Centres that is designated by the Canadian Coast Guard to receive the report.




## Coming into Force



**July 1, 2010**

**11** These Regulations come into force on July 1, 2010.




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Subsections 5(2), 6(4) and 9(2))**
#### NORDREG INFORMATION
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
<th>Column 3</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Designator</th>
<th>Subject</th>
<th>Information</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>A</td>
<td>Vessel</td>
<td>The vessel’s name, the name of the state whose flag the vessel in entitled to fly and, if applicable, the vessel’s call sign, International Maritime Organization ship identification number and Maritime Mobile Service Identity (MMSI) number.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>B</td>
<td>Date and time corresponding to the vessel’s position under designator C or D given in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)</td>
<td>A 6-digit group followed by a Z, the first 2 digits giving the day of the month, the next two digits giving the hour and the last two digits giving the minutes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>C</td>
<td>Vessel’s position by latitude and longitude</td>
<td>A 4-digit group giving the latitude in degrees and minutes suffixed with N, and a 5-digit group giving the longitude in degrees and minutes suffixed with W.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>D</td>
<td>Vessel’s position by geographical name of place</td>
<td>If the vessel is at a known place, the name of the place. If the vessel is not at a known place, the name of a known place followed by the vessel’s true bearing (3-digits) and distance in nautical miles from the place.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>E</td>
<td>Vessel’s course</td>
<td>The true course. A 3-digit group.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>F</td>
<td>Vessel’s speed</td>
<td>The speed in knots. A 2-digit group.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>G</td>
<td>Vessel’s last port of call</td>
<td>The name of the port of call.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>H</td>
<td>Vessel’s entry into the NORDREG Zone or departure from a berth within the NORDREG Zone</td>
<td>The estimated date and time that the vessel will enter the NORDREG Zone or depart the berth within the NORDREG Zone, as appropriate, with the date and time expressed as for designator B and the entry or departure position expressed as for designator C or D.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>I</td>
<td>Vessel’s destination and expected time of arrival</td>
<td>The name of the destination followed by the expected time of arrival, expressed as for designator B.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>K</td>
<td>Vessel’s exit from the NORDREG Zone or arrival at the vessel’s destination.</td>
<td>The date and time that the vessel exits the NORDREG Zone or arrives at its berth within the NORDREG Zone, with the exit date and time expressed as for designator B and the exit or arrival position expressed as for designator C or D.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>L</td>
<td>Vessel’s intended route</td>
<td>A brief description of the intended route through the NORDREG Zone.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>O</td>
<td>Vessel’s maximum present static draught</td>
<td>A 4-digit group giving metres and centimetres.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>P</td>
<td>Vessel’s cargo</td>
<td>A brief description of the vessel’s cargo and the cargo of any vessel being towed or pushed. The description must include**(a)** in the case of a dangerous good, the class and quantity; and

**(b)** in the case of a pollutant, the technical name and quantity.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>Q</td>
<td>Defects, damage and deficiencies, as well as circumstances adversely affecting the vessel’s normal navigation</td>
<td>Brief details regarding any defects, damage or deficiencies of the vessel or its machinery, equipment, or charts and nautical publications, and any circumstances that adversely affect normal navigation.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>S</td>
<td>Weather and ice</td>
<td>A brief description of the prevailing weather and ice conditions.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>T</td>
<td>Vessel’s authorized representative, agent or owner</td>
<td>The name and contact information of**(a)** in the case of a Canadian vessel, its authorized representative;

**(b)** in the case of a foreign vessel, its Canadian or American agent or its owner; and

**(c)** in the case of a pleasure craft that is not a Canadian vessel, the pleasure craft’s owner.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>W</td>
<td>Persons on board the vessel</td>
<td>The number of persons.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>X</td>
<td>**(a)** In the case of a sailing plan report,

**(i)** the amount of oil on board that is for use as fuel or carried as cargo;

**(ii)** if the vessel’s owner or master holds an arctic pollution prevention certificate in respect of the vessel, the certificate;

**(iii)** the vessel’s ice class, if applicable; and

**(iv)** if the report is referred to in paragraph 6(1)(c) of the Regulations, the applicable incident referred to in that paragraph.

**(b)** In the case of a position report referred to in subsection 7(2) of the Regulations, the applicable matter referred to in that subsection.

</td>
<td>**(a)** The following information:

**(i)** the total amount of oil, expressed in cubic metres;

**(ii)** the certificate’s expiry date and the name of its issuing authority;

**(iii)** the vessel’s ice class and the name of the classification society that assigned the ice class; and

**(iv)** a brief description of the applicable incident.

**(b)** A brief description of the applicable matter.

</td>
</tr>
</table>


