> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2010/202.md)

# Ferry-Boats, Tankers and Cargo Vessels Remission Order, 2010

**SOR/2010-202**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CUSTOMS TARIFF](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md)

Date registered: 23 September 2010

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 115<sup><a href='#fn_81000-2-703E_hq_9720'>[a]</a></sup> of the Customs Tariffb, hereby makes the annexed Ferry-Boats, Tankers and Cargo Vessels Remission Order, 2010.

<a name='fn_81000-2-703E_hq_9720'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2005, c. 38, par. 145(2)(j)<br />

<a name='fn_CargoF-005_hq_9705'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1997, c. 36<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***cargo vessel*** means a freighter, container vessel, self-unloader, car carrier or bulk carrier classified under tariff item No. 8901.90.91 or 8901.90.99 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), but does not include a barge or its pusher vessel. (*navire de charge*)

***imported into Canada*** means permanently imported into Canada for the first time; however, it does not apply to ferry-boats, tankers and cargo vessels produced in Canada that have been exported and then subsequently re-imported into Canada. (*importé au Canada*)




## Remission


**2** Remission of the customs duties paid or payable under the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md) is granted in respect of ferry-boats of a length of 129 m or more, classified under subheading No. 8901.10 in the List of Tariff Provisions set out in the schedule to the [Customs Tariff](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%2036.md), tankers classified under subheading No. 8901.20 in that List and cargo vessels.




## Conditions


**3** The remission is granted on the following conditions:
- **(a)** the ferry-boat, tanker or cargo vessel was imported into Canada on or after January 1, 2010;
- **(b)** the importer files all evidence that is required by the Canada Border Services Agency to determine eligibility for remission; and
- **(c)** a claim for remission is made by the importer to the Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness within two years after the date of importation.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


