> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2010/62.md)

# G20 Summit Privileges and Immunities Order, 2010

**SOR/2010-62**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)

Date registered: 11 March 2010

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#fn_g20xml_hq_8307'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#fn_g20xml_hq_8308'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed G20 Summit Privileges and Immunities Order, 2010.

<a name='fn_g20xml_hq_8307'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 10<br />

<a name='fn_g20xml_hq_8308'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***experts performing missions for the Organization*** means governmental or intergovernmental experts who are invited by the Organization to attend the Meeting and the preparatory meetings. (*experts en mission pour l’Organisation*)

***Meeting*** means the meeting of the Organization to be held in Toronto, Ontario from June 26 to 27, 2010. (*réunion*)

***Organization*** means the intergovernmental conference of the 20 leading industrialized countries, also known as the G20. (*Organisation*)

***preparatory meetings*** means the meetings of the personal representatives of the Heads of State and Government of the G20 member countries, known as sherpas, to be held in Ottawa, Ontario from March 18 to 19, 2010, in Calgary, Alberta from May 24 to 25, 2010 and in Toronto, Ontario from June 22 to 24, 2010, or any other meetings of those representatives to be held in Canada during the period beginning on March 11, 2010 and ending on June 25, 2010. (*réunions préparatoires*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** 

- **(1)** During the period beginning on March 11, 2010 and ending on July 4, 2010, the Organization shall have in Canada the legal capacity of a body corporate and the privileges and immunities set out in sections 2 to 5 of Article II of the Convention.

- **(2)** During the period beginning on March 11, 2010 and ending on July 4, 2010, representatives of states and governments that are members of or participate in the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in section 11(d) of Article IV of the Convention.

- **(3)** During the period beginning on June 15, 2010 and ending on July 4, 2010, representatives of states and governments that are members of or participate in the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting, the privileges and immunities set out in sections 11, 12 and 14 to 16 of Article IV of the Convention.

- **(4)** During the period beginning on March 11, 2010 and ending on July 4, 2010, experts performing missions for the Organization shall have in Canada, to the extent required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting and the preparatory meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


