> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/99/145.md)

# Alberta Chicken Order

**SOR/99-145**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 25 March 1999

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Agricultural Products Marketing Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md), hereby makes the annexed Alberta Chicken Order.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 34, s. 2<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Order.

***Act*** means The Marketing of Agricultural Products Act of Alberta. (*Loi*)

***chicken*** means any category of chicken under six months of age and not raised or used for egg production, and includes broilers, roasters, and Rock Cornish hen. (*poulet*)

***Commodity Board*** means the Alberta Chicken Producers Board established under the Act and the Plan. (*Office de commercialisation*)

***Plan*** means the Alberta Chicken Producers Plan Regulations made under the Act. (*Plan*)




## Interprovincial and Export Trade


**2** The Commodity Board is authorized to regulate the marketing of chickens in interprovincial and export trade, and for that purpose may, with respect to persons and property situated within the Province of Alberta, exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by it in relation to the marketing of chickens locally within that Province under the Act and the Plan.




## Levies or Charges


**3** The Commodity Board may in relation to the powers granted to it by section 2,
- **(a)** fix and impose levies or charges on chicken or any component of chicken and collect those levies or charges from persons who, within the Province of Alberta, are engaged in the production or marketing of chicken and for that purpose classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and
- **(b)** use the levies or charges for the purposes of the Commodity Board, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of chicken, and the equalization or adjustment among producers of chicken of money realized from the sale of chicken during any period that the Board may determine.




## Repeal


**4** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into force on March 25, 1999.


