> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/99/238.md)

# GENERAL EXPORT PERMIT NO. 39 — MASS MARKET CRYPTOGRAPHIC SOFTWARE

**SOR/99-238**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 8 June 1999

----------

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsection 7(1.1)<sup>a</sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby issues the annexed *General Export Permit No. 39 — Mass Market Cryptographic Software*.

Ottawa, June 1, 1999


<table>
<tr>
<td>   </td>
<td>Lloyd Axworthy </td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>  </td>
<td>Minister of Foreign Affairs </td>
</tr>
</table>




<sup>a</sup>: S.C. 1994, c. 47, s. 107<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in this Permit.

***Export Controls Division*** means the Export Controls Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade. (*Direction des contrôles à l'exportation*)

***Guide*** has the same meaning as in section 1 of the *Export Control List*. (*Guide*)

***mass market cryptographic software*** means the goods referred to in Group 1 of the schedule to the *Export Control List* that are described in item 1154 of the Guide and that meet all of the following conditions:
- **(a)** generally available to the public by being sold, without restriction, from stock at retail selling points by any of the following means:
	- **(i)** over-the-counter transactions,
	- **(ii)** mail order transactions,
	- **(iii)** electronic transactions, or
	- **(iv)** telephone transactions;
- **(b)** the cryptographic functionality cannot easily be changed by the user;
- **(c)** designed for installation by the user without further substantial support by the supplier; and
- **(d)** does not contain a symmetric algorithm employing a key length exceeding 128 bits. (*logiciel de cryptographie de très grande diffusion*)




## General


**2** Subject to sections 3, 4, and 5, any resident of Canada may, under the authority of and in accordance with this Permit, export mass market cryptographic software from Canada.



**3** This Permit does not authorize the exportation of mass market cryptographic software to any country listed in the *Area Control List* or to any of the following countries:
- **(a)** Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea);
- **(b)** Iran; and
- **(c)** Iraq.




## Conditions


**4** It is a condition of this Permit that the exporter
- **(a)** keep at the exporter's place of business or residence the documents in respect of each export made under this Permit for a period of six years after the date of the export; and
- **(b)** on request, make the documents referred to in paragraph (a) available to an officer of the Export Controls Division.



**5** On request, the exporter must provide details of the mass market cryptographic software to the Export Controls Division.



**6** Where any goods exported under the authority of this Permit are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), the statement "GEP-39" or "LGE-39" must be inserted in the appropriate field of the prescribed form.




## Coming into Force


**7** This Permit comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


