> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/99/279.md)

# Notices of Deposit Restrictions (Authorized Foreign Banks) Regulations

**SOR/99-279**

Enabling authorities: 
- [BANK ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md)

Date registered: 23 June 1999

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to subsections 540(2)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and (3)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and 545(4) to (6)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Bank Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md)<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Notices of Deposit Restrictions (Authorized Foreign Banks) Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1999, c. 28, s. 35(1)<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 46<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Bank Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md). (*Loi*)

***point of service*** means a physical location to which the public has access and at which an authorized foreign bank carries on business with the public and offers products or services through natural persons in Canada. (*point de service*)
> SOR/2009-53, s. 1.





## Notices in Branches and Points of Service and on Websites


**2** 

- **(1)** An authorized foreign bank that is subject to the restrictions and requirements referred to in subsection 524(2) of the Act shall post at least one notice, in the form set out in Schedule 1, in each of its branches in Canada, at each of its points of service and on its websites through which it offers products or services in Canada.

- **(2)** An authorized foreign bank that is not subject to the restrictions and requirements referred to in subsection 524(2) of the Act shall post at least one notice, in the form set out in Schedule 2, in each of its branches in Canada, at each of its points of service and on its websites through which it offers products or services in Canada.

- **(3)** A notice in a branch or point of service shall be prominently displayed in such a manner that it is clearly visible in the area of the branch or point of service to which the public has access. The notice shall
	- **(a)** be 27.94 cm in height and 43.18 cm in width; and
	- **(b)** display letters having a font size of 120 points in the heading and a font size of 50 points in the remainder of the text.

- **(4)** A notice on a website shall be prominently displayed in such a manner that it is clearly visible to the person accessing the website.
> SOR/2009-53, s. 1.





## Notices in Advertisements


**3** 

- **(1)** An authorized foreign bank that is not subject to the restrictions and requirements referred to in subsection 524(2) of the Act shall include in each of its advertisements in which it offers deposit facilities or solicits deposits notices to inform the public that deposits with the authorized foreign bank are not insured by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation.

- **(2)** A notice referred to in subsection (1) shall appear prominently in the advertisement in which it is included.




## Notices Before Opening Accounts


**4** 

- **(1)** An authorized foreign bank that is not subject to the restrictions and requirements referred to in subsection 524(2) of the Act shall, before opening a deposit account in Canada, provide to each person requesting the opening of the account a copy of a notice in the form set out in Schedule 3.

- **(2)** A notice referred to in subsection (1) shall be set out in a separate written statement and be signed by the person requesting the opening of the deposit account.




## Coming into Force


**5** These Regulations come into force on June 28, 1999.




### **SCHEDULE 1** 
**(Subsection 2(1))**
## Notice
(*Name of authorized foreign bank*)

does not accept deposits from the public in Canada and is **not** a

member institution of the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation




### **SCHEDULE 2** 
**(Subsection 2(2))**
## Notice
Deposits with

(*name of authorized foreign bank*)

are **not** insured by the

Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation




### **SCHEDULE 3** 
**(Subsection 4(1))**
## Notice
Deposits with (*name of authorized foreign bank*) are **not** insured by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation.


(*Name of authorized foreign bank*) is authorized to carry on business in Canada pursuant to the [Bank Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2046.md). Its primary supervisor, (*name of home country supervisor*), is responsible for the supervision of the total business and affairs of (*name of authorized foreign bank*). Its business in Canada is supervised by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions.


For more information, you can contact the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions at:

Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions



255 Albert Street



Ottawa, Ontario



K1A 0H2




I acknowledge receipt of this notice.



____________________
(*signature of the person requesting the opening of the deposit account*)



