> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/99/335.md)

# Private Buoy Regulations

**SOR/99-335**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA SHIPPING ACT, 2001](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2001/c.%2026.md)

Date registered: 28 July 1999

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, pursuant to sections 519 and 562<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Canada Shipping Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/S/S-9.md), hereby makes the annexed Private Buoy Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: R.S., c. 6 (3rd Supp.), s. 77<br />




## Interpretation


**1** In these Regulations, ***private buoy***means a buoy that is not owned by the federal government, a provincial government or a government agency.




## Application


**2** These Regulations apply to every private buoy other than private buoys used to mark fishing gear.




## Placement Requirements


**3** No person shall place in any Canadian waters a private buoy that interferes with or is likely to interfere with the navigation of any vessel, or that misleads or is likely to mislead the operator of any vessel.



**4** 

- **(1)** No person shall place a private buoy in any Canadian waters unless
	- **(a)** the part of the buoy that shows above the surface of the water is at least 15.25 cm wide and at least 30.5 cm high;
	- **(b)** the buoy displays, on opposite sides, the capital letters “PRIV” that are
		- **(i)** as large as is practical for the size of the buoy, and
		- **(ii)** white when the background colour is red, green or black;
		- **(iii)** black when the background colour is white or yellow;
	- **(c)** the buoy complies with the requirements set out in Canadian Aids to Navigation (TP 968) published by the Canadian Coast Guard in 1995, as amended from time to time;
	- **(d)** the buoy displays, in a conspicuous location and in a permanent and legible manner, the name, address and telephone number of its owner;
	- **(e)** the buoy is constructed and maintained in a manner and with materials that ensure that it remains in position and retains the characteristics specified in paragraphs (a) to (d); and
	- **(f)** the buoy’s anchor is constructed and maintained in a manner and with materials that ensure that it remains in position.

- **(2)** The owner of a private buoy placed in any Canadian waters shall ensure that the information required by paragraph (1)(d) is accurate at all times.



**5** If there is a need for increased visibility or better identification of a buoy for safety and the prevention of accidents, the Minister of Transport may order the owner of the buoy to modify it according to the requirements set out in the Procedures Manual for Design and Review of Short-range Aids to Navigation Systems (TP 9677), published in March 1989 by the Canadian Coast Guard, as amended from time to time.
> SOR/2002-19, s. 1; SOR/2010-27, s. 1.




**6** No person shall place in any Canadian waters a private buoy that has a light unless the light remains lit throughout the night and meets the requirements referred to in paragraph 4(1)(c).




## Removal


**7** The Minister of Transport may remove from any Canadian waters a private buoy that does not comply with these Regulations.
> SOR/2010-27, s. 2.





## Repeal


**8** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force


**9** These Regulations come into force on the date on which they are registered.


