> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/99/4.md)

# Blainville Motor Vehicle Test Centre Benefit Eligibility Protection Regulations

**SOR/99-4**

Enabling authorities: 
- [PUBLIC SERVICE SUPERANNUATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md)

- [FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md)

Date registered: 14 December 1998

----------

The Treasury Board, on the recommendation of the President of the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 42.1(1)(u)<sup><a href='#fn_SOR-99-4_e_hq_4094'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md) and paragraph 7(2)(a) of the [Financial Administration Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-11.md), hereby makes the annexed Blainville Motor Vehicle Test Centre Benefit Eligibility Protection Regulations.

<a name='fn_SOR-99-4_e_hq_4094'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1992, c. 46, s. 22<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The definitions in this section apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Public Service Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-36.md). (*Loi*)

***new employer*** means PMG Technologies Inc. to whom Her Majesty in right of Canada transferred the administration of the Blainville Motor Vehicle Test Centre on June 15, 1996. (*nouvel employeur*)




## Application


**2** These Regulations apply to a person who, by reason of the transfer of the Blainville Motor Vehicle Test Centre by her Majesty in right of Canada to the new employer, ceased to be employed in the Public Service and became employed by the new employer and exercises an option under section 3.




## Applicable Provisions


**3** A person may, within one year after the date of the coming into force of these Regulations, exercise an option to have the period that begins on the date on which the person ceased to be employed in the Public Service and that ends on the date the person ceases to be employed by the new employer counted for determining eligibility for an annuity or other benefit under the Act, if
- **(a)** on June 14, 1996 the person was a contributor under the Act and ceased to be employed in the Public Service to become employed by the new employer; and
- **(b)** has not received any annuity or other benefit under section 12, 13 or 13.01 of the Act.



**4** An option exercised pursuant to section 3 is irrevocable and must be exercised in writing, dated and signed by the person, and sent to the Minister.



**5** Sections 12, 13 and 13.01 of the Act only apply to a person on and after the date on which that person ceases to be employed by the new employer.




## Surviving Spouse and Children


**6** For the purpose of subsection 26(1) of the Act, a surviving spouse of a person who became the spouse of that person during the period that begins on the date on which the person ceased to be employed in the Public Service and that ends on the date on which the person ceases to be employed by the new employer is entitled to an allowance under Part I of the Act.



**7** For the purpose of subsection 26(2) of the Act, a child who was born to or adopted by a person or became the stepchild of the person during the period that begins on the date on which the person ceased to be employed in the Public Service and that ends on the date on which the person ceases to be employed by the new employer is entitled to an allowance under Part I of the Act.




## Adaptation of Subsection 10(5) of the Act


**8** For the purposes of subsection 10(5) of the Act, the one year period referred to in paragraph 10(5)(a) of the Act shall begin on the date on which the person ceases to be employed by the new employer.




## Adaptation of Sections 12 and 13 of the Act


**9** For the purposes of sections 12 and 13 of the Act, pensionable service includes the period of service with the new employer that begins on the date on which the person ceased to be employed in the Public Service and that ends on the date on which the person ceases to be employed by the new employer.



**10** For the purposes of sections 12 and 13 of the Act, the age of a person when the person ceased to be employed in the Public Service is the age of the person on the date on which the person ceases to be employed by the new employer.




## Coming into Force


**11** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


