> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/99/422.md)

# Order Authorizing Federal Employees to Acquire Interests in Certain Lands in the Northwest Territories (Order No. 3, 1999)

**SOR/99-422**

Enabling authorities: 
- [TERRITORIAL LANDS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/T/T-7.md)

Date registered: 21 October 1999

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, pursuant to paragraph 29(1)(a) of the [Territorial Lands Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/T/T-7.md), hereby makes the annexed Order Authorizing Federal Employees to Acquire Interests in Certain Lands in the Northwest Territories (Order No. 3, 1999).




## Purpose


**1** The purpose of this Order is to authorize certain employees of the Government of Canada to acquire an interest in territorial lands in the Northwest Territories.




## Authorization


**2** The employee of the Government of Canada named in the schedule is hereby authorized to acquire an interest in territorial lands in the Northwest Territories as described in the schedule.




## Coming into Force


**3** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.




### **SCHEDULE** 
To Wayne Angus Keefe, of the Town of Hay River in the Northwest Territories, a Telecom Manager employee with the Department of Fisheries and Oceans, to lease, for recreational purposes, a 90 metres by 60 metres un-surveyed parcel of land of approximately 0.54 hectares in size, near km36 on Highway No.1, in the Northwest Territories, situated at 60°14′21″ north latitude and 116°34′39″ west longitude, said parcel is shown on NTS Map Sheet No. 85 C/2, saving and excepting therefrom and reserving thereout all mines and minerals, including hydrocarbons, whether solid, liquid or gaseous and the right to work them.



