> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2003/180.md)

# Order Issuing the General Export Permit No. 40 — Certain Industrial Chemicals

**SOR/2003-180**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 22 May 2003

----------

The Minister of Foreign Affairs, pursuant to subsections 7(1.1)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> and 10(1)<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup> of the [Export and Import Permits Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md), hereby makes the Order Issuing the General Export Permit No. 40 — Certain Industrial Chemicals.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: 1994, c. 47, s. 107<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: 1994, c. 47, s. 111<br />

Ottawa, March 31, 2003


<p>William Graham<br />Minister of Foreign Affairs<br /></p>




## General


**1** Subject to sections 2 and 3, any resident of Canada may export from Canada chemicals referred to in Group 8 of the schedule to the [Export Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/89/202.md).



**2** This Order does not authorize the exportation of goods described in section 1 to Bolivia or Peru or to any country listed in the [Area Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/81/543.md).



**3** It is a condition of exportation that
- **(a)** the exporter keep, at the exporter’s place of business or residence, the documents in respect of each exportation for a period of six years after the date of the exportation; and
- **(b)** the documents identify the final consignee.



**4** Where any goods exported are required to be reported in the prescribed form under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), that form shall contain the statement “Exported under the authority of Order Issuing the General Export Permit No. 40 — Certain Industrial Chemicals" or “Exporté en vertu de l’Arrêté portant délivrance de la licence générale d’exportation no 40 — Produits chimiques industriels".




## Cancellation


**5** General Export Permit No. Ex. 26 — Industrial Chemicals<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup> is cancelled.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: SOR/93-85<br />




## Coming into Force


**6** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


