> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2003/225.md)

# Saskatchewan Canola Order

**SOR/2003-225**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 12 June 2003

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, pursuant to section 2<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Agricultural Products Marketing Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md), hereby makes the annexed Saskatchewan Canola Order.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 34, s. 2<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Act*** means The Agri-Food Act of the Province of Saskatchewan. (*Loi*)

***canola*** means canola, rapeseed or oilseed, of the genus *Brassica*, that is produced in Saskatchewan. (*colza*)

***Commission*** means the Saskatchewan Canola Development Commission. (*Commission*)

***Plan*** means The Saskatchewan Canola Development Plan Regulations made under the Act. (*plan*)




## Interprovincial and Export Trade


**2** The Commission is authorized to regulate the marketing of canola in interprovincial and export trade and for that purpose may, with respect to persons and property situated within the Province of Saskatchewan, exercise all or any powers like the powers exercisable by it in relation to the marketing of canola locally within the Province under the Act and the Plan.




## Levies or Charges


**3** The Commission may, in relation to the powers granted to it under section 2,
- **(a)** fix and impose, by Order, and collect levies or charges from persons referred to in that section who are engaged in the production or marketing of canola, and for those purposes may classify those persons into groups and fix the levies or charges payable by the members of the different groups in different amounts; and
- **(b)** use the levies or charges for the purposes of the Commission, including the creation of reserves, the payment of expenses and losses resulting from the sale or disposal of canola and the equalization or adjustment among the producers of canola of money realized from the sale of canola during any period that the Commission may determine.




## Repeal


**4** [Repeal]




## Coming into Force


**5** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


