> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2003/313.md)

# Proclamation Declaring that the Government Corporations Operation Act is Applicable to Parc Downsview Park Inc. beginning on September 16, 2003

**SOR/2003-313**

Enabling authorities: 
- [GOVERNMENT CORPORATIONS OPERATION ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md)

Date registered: 16 September 2003

----------

ADRIENNE CLARKSON

[L.S.]

Canada

Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom, Canada and Her other Realms and Territories QUEEN, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith.

To All to Whom these Presents shall come or whom the same may in any way concern,

*Greeting:*

MORRIS ROSENBERG

*Deputy Attorney General*

A Proclamation

Whereas section 6 of the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) provides that the Act applies to a corporation only from the date of the issue of a proclamation by the Governor in Council declaring the Act to be applicable to that corporation;

Whereas Parc Downsview Park Inc. is a corporation incorporated under the [Canada Business Corporations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-44.md) and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Canada Lands Company Limited, and the issued shares of Parc Downsview Park Inc. are held in trust for Her Majesty in right of Canada;

And whereas, by Order in Council P.C. 2003-1306 of September 3, 2003, the Governor in Council has directed that a proclamation do issue declaring that the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) is applicable to Parc Downsview Park Inc., from the date of the issue of the proclamation;

Now Know You that We, by and with the advice of Our Privy Council for Canada and pursuant to Order in Council P.C. 2003-1306 of September 3, 2003, do by this Our Proclamation declare that the [Government Corporations Operation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-4.md) is applicable to Parc Downsview Park Inc., from the date of the issue of this Proclamation, being September 16, 2003.

Of All Which Our Loving Subjects and all others whom these Presents may concern are hereby required to take notice and to govern themselves accordingly.

In Testimony Whereof, We have caused this Our Proclamation to be published and the Great Seal of Canada to be hereunto affixed. Witness: Our Right Trusty and Well-beloved Adrienne Clarkson, Chancellor and Principal Companion of Our Order of Canada, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Military Merit, Chancellor and Commander of Our Order of Merit of the Police Forces, Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada.

At Our Government house, in Our City of Ottawa, this sixteenth day of September in the year of Our Lord two thousand and three and in the fifty-second year of Our Reign.

By command,

JEAN-CLAUDE VILLIARD

*Deputy Registrar General of Canada*


