> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/62/91.md)

# Support Organizations Superannuation Regulations

**SOR/62-91**

Enabling authorities: 
- APPROPRIATION ACT NO. 5, 1961

- [APPROPRIATION ACTS](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/Z/Z-01.md)

Date registered: 8 March 1962

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, pursuant to Vote No. 547 of the Appropriation Act No. 5, 1961, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Support Organizations Superannuation Regulations.



**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Support Organizations Superannuation Regulations.



**2** The following organizations and positions are, in the opinion of the Governor in Council, in support of the forces specified in clauses (E) and (F) of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of section 5 of the [Canadian Forces Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-17.md);
- **(a)** South African Military Nursing Service;
- **(b)** Queen Alexandra’s Royal Naval Nursing Services;
- **(c)** Women’s Royal Naval Service; and
- **(d)** a position of full-time service with forces of the Royal Navy under T124 or T124X agreements.



**3** Full-time service in an organization or position designated in section 2 may be counted as pensionable service by a contributor for the purposes of the [Canadian Forces Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-17.md) if, while a member of the regular forces, he elects within one year from the date of coming into force of these Regulations or within one year of becoming a contributor under the Act, whichever is the later date, to pay for such service.



**4** The amount of contributions required in respect of pensionable service elected pursuant to section 3, shall be the same amount and paid in the same manner as required for elective service specified in
- **(a)** clause (E) of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of section 5 of the [Canadian Forces Superannuation Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-17.md), in the case of service during a period of time specified in that clause; or
- **(b)** clause (F) of that subparagraph, in the case of service during a different period of time.


