> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2005/1.md)

# Northwest Territories Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2005-1**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 21 December 2004

----------

The Commissioner of the Northwest Territories, on the recommendation of the Northwest Territories Minister of Justice and pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Northwest Territories Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 10<br />

December 14, 2004
<p>Glenna F. Hansen<br />Commissioner of the Northwest Territories<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***NWTSOIRC*** means the Northwest Territories Sex Offender Information Registration Centre, administered by RCMP “G” Division and located at 5010 49th Avenue, Yellowknife. (*BIRDSTNO*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)




## Report and Notification by Telephone


**2** 

- **(1)** A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Northwest Territories may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone.

- **(2)** For greater certainty, subsection (1) does not remove the requirement for the sex offender to report in person under paragraph 4.1(c) of the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**3** Every member of the RCMP is authorized in the Northwest Territories to collect information for the purposes of the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**4** Every person whose duties include the registration of information at the NWTSOIRC is authorized in the Northwest Territories to register information for the purposes of the Act.




## Registration Centres


**5** 

- **(1)** Each RCMP detachment in the Northwest Territories is designated as a registration centre and the designated area of service of each registration centre is the area served by the detachment.

- **(2)** The NWTSOIRC is designated as a registration centre in the Northwest Territories and its designated area of service is the entire Northwest Territories.




## Coming into Force


<sup><a href='#fn_IndFB73_hq_16346'>[*]</a></sup>**6** These Regulations come into force on the later of the day on which the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md), chapter 10 of the Statutes of Canada, 2004, comes into force and the day on which these Regulations are registered.

<a name='fn_IndFB73_hq_16346'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force December 21, 2004.]<br />


