> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2005/16.md)

# New Brunswick Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2005-16**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 20 January 2005

----------

The Lieutenant-Governor in Council of New Brunswick, pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed New Brunswick Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 10 <br />

January 13, 2005


<p>Herménégilde Chiasson<br />Lieutenant-Governor of New Brunswick<br /></p>




## Interpretation


**1** 

- **(1)** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)

- **(2)** In these Regulations, ***police officer*** and ***police force*** have the same meaning as in section 1 of the Police Act, chapter P-9.2 of the Acts of New Brunswick, 1977, as amended from time to time.




## Report and Notification


**2** A sex offender whose main residence is located in the Province of New Brunswick may make any report required under paragraph 4.1(a) or (b) or section 4.3 of the Act, or provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act, by telephone.




## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**3** Members of the RCMP and police officers are authorized in the Province of New Brunswick to collect information for the purposes of the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**4** The following persons are authorized in the Province of New Brunswick to register information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP;
- **(b)** a police officer; and
- **(c)** a person employed at the New Brunswick Sex Offender Information Registration Centre, administered by RCMP “J” Division, whose duties include the registration of information.




## Registration Centres


**5** A place set out in column 1 of the table to this section is designated as a registration centre in the Province of New Brunswick, and its designated area of service is set out in column 2:
#### TABLE
<table>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column 1</th>
<th>Column 2</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Place</th>
<th>Designated Area of Service</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>the New Brunswick Sex Offender Information Registration Centre, at RCMP “J” Division Headquarters in Fredericton</td>
<td>the Province of New Brunswick</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>each RCMP district office</td>
<td>the district that the office serves</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>the RCMP post on the Island of Grand Manan</td>
<td>the Island of Grand Manan</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>the headquarters of each police force</td>
<td>the municipality or region that the police force serves</td>
</tr>
</table>





## Coming into Force


**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


