> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2005/178.md)

# Cigarette Ignition Propensity Regulations

**SOR/2005-178**

Enabling authorities: 
- TOBACCO ACT

Date registered: 7 June 2005

----------

Whereas, pursuant to section 42.1 of the Tobacco Act<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, the Minister of Health laid a copy of the proposed Cigarette Ignition Propensity Regulations, in the annexed form, before the House of Commons on November 30, 2004 and the House of Commons did not concur in any report from a committee respecting the proposed Regulations within the following thirty sitting days;

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 1997, c. 13<br />

Therefore, Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Health, pursuant to section 7 of the Tobacco Act<sup>[a]</sup>, hereby makes the annexed Cigarette Ignition Propensity Regulations.




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***brand*** means all of the brand elements that as a whole are used by a manufacturer to identify to a consumer a tobacco product made by the manufacturer that is a cigarette. (*marque*)

***cigarette*** means any roll or tubular construction that contains tobacco, has a wrapper or cover made of paper and is consumed through the inhalation of the products of combustion. It does not include a bidi, cigar, kretek or tobacco stick. (*cigarette*)




## Application



**Application**

**2** Every provision of these Regulations that applies to a brand of cigarettes also applies to every size of that brand.




## Ignition Propensity Standard



**Standard**

**3** 

- **(1)** Every manufacturer shall ensure that the cigarettes of every brand that it manufactures on or after October 1, 2005 burn their full length no more than 25% of the time when tested on 10 layers of filter paper using ASTM International method E2187 — 04, dated July 1, 2004 and entitled Standard Test Method for Measuring the Ignition Strength of Cigarettes.

**Cigarettes of same brand**

- **(2)** Every manufacturer shall ensure that each test is conducted on cigarettes of the same brand.




## Coming into Force



**Coming into force**

**4** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


