> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2005/291.md)

# United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Privileges and Immunities Order

**SOR/2005-291**

Enabling authorities: 
- FOREIGN MISSIONS AND INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS ACT 

Date registered: 26 September 2005

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, pursuant to section 5<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup> of the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md)<sup><a href='#footnoteb_e'>[b]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Privileges and Immunities Order. 

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2002, c. 12, s. 3 and 10<br />

<a name='footnoteb_e'><sup>b</sup></a>: S.C. 1991, c. 41<br />




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in this Order.

***Convention*** means the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations set out in Schedule III to the [Foreign Missions and International Organizations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2041.md). (*Convention*)

***Meeting*** means the meeting of the Organization to be held in Montreal, Quebec from November 28, 2005 to December 9, 2005. (*réunion principale*)

***Organization*** means the intergovernmental conference of the state parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, done at New York, United States of America and entered into force on March 21, 1994, and to the Kyoto Protocol of that Convention and the Secretariat established by Article 8 of that Convention. (*Organisation*)

***Preparatory Meetings*** means the meetings by the Expert Group on Technology Transfer and the Executive Board of the Clean Development Mechanism and the Expert Meeting on Tools and Methodologies on Possible Impacts of Response Measures to be held in Montreal, Quebec from November 23 to November 25, 2005. (*réunions préparatoires*)

***relevant period*** means the period beginning on November 20, 2005 and ending on December 12, 2005. (*période visée*)




## Privileges and Immunities


**2** 

- **(1)** During the relevant period, the Organization shall have in Canada the legal capacity of a body corporate and the privileges and immunities set out in Article II of the Convention.

- **(2)** During the relevant period, representatives of states and governments that are members of the Organization shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting and the Preparatory Meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article IV of the Convention.

- **(3)** During the relevant period, officials of the Organization shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to the Meeting and the Preparatory Meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article V of the Convention.

- **(4)** During the relevant period, experts who are invited by the Organization to attend the Meeting and the Preparatory Meetings shall have in Canada, to such extent as may be required for the exercise of their functions in Canada in relation to those Meetings, the privileges and immunities set out in Article VI of the Convention.



**3** The privileges and immunities referred to in section 2 do not apply to Canadian citizens and permanent residents of Canada in respect of liability for taxes or duties imposed by any law in Canada.




## Coming into Force


**4** This Order comes into force on the day on which it is registered.


