> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2005/43.md)

# Yukon Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations

**SOR/2005-43**

Enabling authorities: 
- [SEX OFFENDER INFORMATION REGISTRATION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)

Date registered: 17 February 2005

----------

Pursuant to subsection 18(1) of the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md)<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, the Commissioner of Yukon hereby makes the annexed Yukon Sex Offender Information Registration Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2004, c. 10<br />

February 10, 2005

I.J. Cable

Commissioner of Yukon




## Interpretation


**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Sex Offender Information Registration Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2004/c.%2010.md). (*Loi*)

***RCMP*** means the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. (*GRC*)

***YSOIRC*** means the Yukon Sex Offender Information Registration Centre located in Whitehorse and administered by RCMP “M” Division. (*BIRDSYUK*)




## Notification by Telephone


**2** A sex offender whose main residence is located in Yukon may provide any notification required under section 6 of the Act by telephone to the YSOIRC.




## Persons Authorized to Collect Information


**3** A member of the RCMP is authorized in Yukon to collect information for the purposes of the Act.




## Persons Authorized to Register Information


**4** The following persons are authorized in Yukon to register information for the purposes of the Act:
- **(a)** a member of the RCMP; and
- **(b)** a person employed by the RCMP whose duties include the registration of information collected under the Act.




## Registration Centres


**5** 

- **(1)** Each RCMP detachment in Yukon is designated as a registration centre and the designated area of service of each registration centre is the area served by the detachment.

- **(2)** The YSOIRC is designated as a registration centre in Yukon and its designated area of service is all of Yukon.




## Coming into Force


**6** These Regulations come into force on the day on which they are registered.


