> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/2005/79.md)

# Federal Public Sector Labour Relations Regulations

**SOR/2005-79**

Enabling authorities: 
- PUBLIC SERVICE LABOUR RELATIONS ACT

Date registered: 1 April 2005

----------

The Public Service Labour Relations Board, pursuant to sections 39, 237 and 238 of the Public Service Labour Relations Act<sup><a href='#footnotea_e'>[a]</a></sup>, makes the annexed Public Service Labour Relations Board Regulations.

<a name='footnotea_e'><sup>a</sup></a>: S.C. 2003, c. 22, s. 2<br />

Ottawa, April 1, 2005




## Interpretation



**Definitions**

**1** The following definitions apply in these Regulations.

***Act*** means the [Federal Public Sector Labour Relations Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022,%20s.%202.md). (*Loi*)

***employee***
- **(a)** in Part 1, has the same meaning as in subsection 2(1) of the Act; and
- **(b)** in Part 2, has the same meaning as in section 206 of the Act. (*fonctionnaire*)

***initiating document*** means, as the case may be,
- **(a)** a request for an extension, an addition or a reduction of time under section 12 if the request is filed before the filing of any document referred to in any of paragraphs (b) to (x) or (z.1);
- **(b)** a request for the Board to exercise any of its powers, duties and functions under section 12 of the Act;
- **(c)** a request for the Board to exercise any of its powers under section 43 of the Act;
- **(d)** [Repealed, SOR/2014-251, s. 2]
- **(e)** an application for certification under section 54 of the Act;
- **(f)** an application, under section 58 of the Act, for a determination of membership of an employee or a class of employees in a bargaining unit;
- **(g)** an application, under subsection 79(2) of the Act, for a determination of the rights, privileges and duties of an employee organization;
- **(h)** an application for certification under section 83 of the Act;
- **(i)** an application for an order under subsection 84(1) or section 89 of the Act;
- **(j)** an application, under subsection 86(1) of the Act, for leave to give to the other party a notice to bargain collectively;
- **(k)** an application for revocation of certification under section 94, 98, 99 or 100 of the Act;
- **(l)** an application, under subsection 101(2) of the Act, for a determination of the rights or duties of an employee organization;
- **(m)** an application for direction under section 102 of the Act;
- **(n)** an application, under paragraph 117(b) of the Act, for an extension of the time to implement a collective agreement;
- **(o) to (r)** [Repealed, SOR/2014-251, s. 2]
- **(s)** a request for arbitration under subsection 136(1) of the Act;
- **(s.1)** an application for review of an arbitral award under subsection 158.1(2) of the Act;
- **(t)** a request for conciliation under subsection 161(1) of the Act;
- **(u)** an application for a declaration that a strike vote is invalid under subsection 184(2) of the Act;
- **(v)** a complaint made under section 190 of the Act;
- **(w)** an application for a declaration of unlawful conduct under subsection 198(1) of the Act;
- **(x)** an application to obtain the consent of the Board referred to in section 205 of the Act;
- **(y)** an application for an extension of time referred to in subsection 61(b) if the application is filed before the notice of a reference to adjudication;
- **(z)** the notice of a reference to adjudication under section 223 of the Act; or
- **(z.1)** a request for the filing of an order of an adjudicator or the Board in the Federal Court under subsection 234(1) of the Act. (*document introductif*)

***intervenor***, in respect of a proceeding, means any person that has been granted intervenor status. (*intervenant*)

***person*** includes an employee organization, a council of employee organizations and an employer. (*personne*)
> SOR/2014-251, s. 2; 2017, c. 9, s. 58.





## General Provisions



**Filing initiating documents**

**2** Subject to sections 3, 47, 51 and 55, all initiating documents must be filed in duplicate with the Board.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 3.





**Initiating document sent by fax**

**3** 

- **(1)** If an initiating document is sent by fax to the Board, the original of the document and a copy must be sent to the Board as soon as possible.

**Date of receipt**

- **(2)** The initiating document sent by fax is deemed to be received on the date of the fax transmission if its original and a copy are sent in accordance with subsection (1).
> SOR/2014-251, s. 4.





**Copies**

**4** On receipt of an initiating document or, in the case of an initiating document sent by fax, on receipt of the original of the document and the copy, the Board must provide copies to the other party and to any person who may be affected by the proceeding.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 5.





**Reply**

**5** The other party must reply to the initiating document — other than a request for arbitration, an application for review of an arbitral award, referred to in subsection 158.1(2) of the Act, a request for conciliation or a notice of a reference to adjudication — no later than 15 days after it receives a copy of the document, unless these Regulations provide otherwise.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 5.





**Failure to reply**

**6** Despite sections 16 and 17, if, in a proceeding — other than a reference to adjudication — the other party fails to file its reply to the initiating document within the time limit prescribed in these Regulations, the Board or the Chairperson, as the case may be, may dispose of the matter before it without further notice to that party.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 5.





**Subsequent documents**

**7** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 8, any document submitted subsequently to an initiating document must be filed with the Board.

**Copies**

- **(2)** The person filing a subsequent document shall provide a copy of it to
	- **(a)** the person who filed the initiating document;
	- **(b)** every person in receipt of an initiating document by virtue of section 4, unless that person has notified the Board in writing that the person does not wish to receive a copy of subsequent documents;
	- **(c)** any intervenors; and
	- **(d)** the Canadian Human Rights Commission if it received a notice referred to in subsection 210(1), 217(1) or 222(1) of the Act.

**Exceptions**

- **(3)** Subsection (2) does not apply in respect of
	- **(a)** applications for a summons;
	- **(b)** the documentary evidence referred to in sections 30 and 42;
	- **(c)** the additional documentation provided by the employer under sections 32 and 44; and
	- **(d)** statements of opposition and applications to amend statements of opposition.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 6.





**Clarification**

**8** Section 7 does not apply to documents filed under section 19 or 54, subsections 92(1) or 93(1), or section 104.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 7.





**Document received after 4:00 p.m.**

**9** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), if a document is received by the Board after 4:00 p.m. Ottawa local time, the date of receipt of the document is deemed to be the next day that is not a Saturday or a holiday.

**Receipt of document sent by courier**

- **(2)** If a document is sent by courier addressed to the Board, the document is deemed to have been received on the day on which it is sent.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 7.





**Computation of time**

**10** If the time limit, under these Regulations, for the filing or presentation of a document expires on a Saturday or a holiday, the document may be filed on the day next following that is not a Saturday or a holiday.




**Withdrawal**

**11** 

- **(1)** The person who initiates a proceeding before the Board, the Chairperson or an adjudicator may withdraw the proceeding in person at the hearing or by providing the Board with a notice of withdrawal in writing at any time before a decision is made.

**Closing of file**

- **(2)** On being informed by the Chairperson or an adjudicator of the withdrawal or on receipt of the notice of withdrawal, the Board must close the file and inform the parties, the intervenors and, if notice to the Canadian Human Rights Commission was given under subsection 210(1), 217(1) or 222(1) of the Act, the Canadian Human Rights Commission that the file has been closed.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 8.





**PART 1** 
## Labour Relations



### General Provisions



**Extension or reduction of time**

**12** Despite any other provision of this Part, the Board may, with respect to any Board matter referred to in this Part,
- **(a)** in the interest of fairness, extend the time specified under this Part, or allow for additional time, to do any act or file any notice or any document; or
- **(b)** if a matter is urgent, on notice to all parties, reduce the time specified under this Part to do any act or file any notice or any document.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 9.





**Consolidation**

**13** To ensure the expeditious resolution of proceedings, the Board may direct that any two or more proceedings before it be consolidated.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 9.





**Addition of party or intervenor**

**14** 

- **(1)** Any person with a substantial interest in a proceeding before the Board may apply to the Board to be added as a party or an intervenor.

**Representations**

- **(2)** The Board may, after giving the parties the opportunity to make representations in respect of the application, add the person as a party or an intervenor.




**Insufficient information**

**15** 

- **(1)** The Board may, on its own initiative or at request of a party or an intervenor, request that information contained in any document filed by any other party or any other intervenor be made more complete or specific.

**Striking out information**

- **(2)** The Board may, after giving the party or intervenor to whom the request was made the opportunity to reply to the request, strike from the document the information that is incomplete or insufficiently specific.




**Notice of pre-hearing conference**

**16** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the Board must provide the parties and intervenors with notice of a pre-hearing conference at least three days before the day that is fixed for it.

**Exception**

- **(2)** Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of an application for review of an arbitral award referred to in subsection 158.1(2) of the Act.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 10.





**Notice of hearing**

**17** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (1.1), the Board must provide the parties and intervenors with notice of a hearing before the Board at least seven days before the day that is fixed for it.

**Exception**

- **(1.1)** Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of an application for review of an arbitral award referred to in subsection 158.1(2) of the Act.

**Notice of hearing to those opposing**

- **(2)** In the case of an application for certification or revocation of certification, the Board must also provide notice to each employee or representative of a group of employees who has filed a statement of opposition with respect to the application for certification or revocation of certification, at least seven days before the day that is fixed for the hearing.

**Failure to attend**

- **(3)** If a person who is provided with a notice of hearing fails to attend the hearing or any continuance of it, the Board may proceed with the hearing and dispose of the matter without further notice to that person.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 11.





**Contents of summons application**

**18** The Board may, if necessary for the fair and expeditious resolution of a proceeding before it, require that an application for a summons contain the name and address of the witness to be summoned and a statement of the evidence that the witness is expected to give at the hearing.




**Document adduced as evidence**

**19** 

- **(1)** Any document adduced as evidence shall be filed at the hearing with a copy for the Board, each party and each intervenor.

**Bilingualism**

- **(2)** The document shall be filed in both official languages, if it exists in both languages.




**Confidentiality of employees’ wishes**

**20** Despite section 4, the Board shall not disclose to anyone evidence that could reveal membership in an employee organization, opposition to the certification or revocation of certification of an employee organization, or the wish of any employee to be represented, or not to be represented, by an employee organization, unless the disclosure would be in furtherance of the objectives of the Act.




**Adjournment of hearings**

**21** The Board may adjourn a hearing and specify the date, time, place and terms of its continuance.




**Application for review of Board’s decision**

**22** An application for a review, referred to in section 43 of the Act, of an order or a decision of the Board shall contain a statement of the grounds on which the applicant intends to rely in support of the review.




**DIVISION 1** 
### Certification



#### Procedure for Certification



**Application for certification**

**23** An application for certification under section 54 of the Act shall be filed in Form 1 of the schedule.




**Closing date**

**24** On receipt of the application for certification, the Board must
- **(a)** fix a closing date that is a date that will allow sufficient time for the employees to be notified and for them to respond, considering the number of employees who may be affected by the application for certification and the locations at which they are employed, and that is no less than 15 days and no more than 40 days after the day on which the application for certification is filed; and
- **(b)** notify the employer and any employee organization known to the Board that claims to represent any employees who may be affected by the application of the closing date.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 12.





**Copies of notice to employees**

**25** 

- **(1)** The Board must provide the employer with as many copies of the notice of the application for certification as are necessary considering the number of employees who may be affected by the application and the locations at which they are employed.

**Posting of copies of notice**

- **(2)** On receipt of the copies of the notice, an employer shall post them, until the closing date, in conspicuous places where they are most likely to come to the attention of the employees who may be affected by the application.

**Statement of compliance**

- **(3)** Immediately after the closing date, the employer shall file a statement that the employer has complied with subsection (2).
> SOR/2014-251, s. 13.





**Employer’s reply**

**26** An employer shall file a reply to the application for certification, on or before the closing date, in Form 2 of the schedule.




**Intervention**

**27** An employee organization that is provided with a copy of the application for certification or that claims to represent any of the employees who may be affected by the application may, on or before the closing date, file an application for intervention in Form 3 of the schedule.




**Statement of opposition**

**28** If an employee or a group of employees is affected by an application for certification and is in opposition to it, the employee or group of employees may, on or before the closing date, file a statement of opposition in Form 4 of the schedule.




**Amendment**

**29** A person may file an application to amend an application for certification, reply, application for intervention or statement of opposition filed by that person.




**Documentary evidence**

**30** 

- **(1)** An application for certification shall be accompanied by the documentary evidence on which the applicant intends to rely to satisfy the Board that a majority of the employees in the proposed bargaining unit wish the applicant to represent them as their bargaining agent.

**Deadline for supplementary documentary evidence**

- **(2)** Any supplementary documentary evidence shall be filed on or before the closing date for the application.




**Council of employee organizations — documentary evidence**

**31** If a council of employee organizations files an application for certification, the council shall, when the application is filed, file the documentary evidence on which the council intends to rely to satisfy the Board that each of the employee organizations forming the council has vested appropriate authority in the council to enable it to discharge the duties and responsibilities of a bargaining agent.




**Employer — additional documentation**

**32** To verify that a majority of the employees in the proposed bargaining unit wish the applicant to represent them as their bargaining agent, the Board may require the employer to file a list that identifies all of the employees in respect of whom the application is filed, along with either the specimen signatures of the employees, the home addresses of the employees, or both.




#### Managerial or Confidential Positions



**Application concerning managerial or confidential positions**

**33** 

- **(1)** An application under subsection 59(1) or 71(1) of the Act for an order declaring a position to be a managerial or confidential position shall set out, for each position,
	- **(a)** the position title, description, number and classification, the department or agency to which it belongs, the geographic location of the position and the name of the occupant of the position;
	- **(b)** the paragraph in subsection 59(1) of the Act on which the employer relies in support of the application; and
	- **(c)** if the employer relies on paragraph 59(1)(h) of the Act, the paragraphs to which paragraph 59(1)(h) applies, together with the title, description, number and classification of the position in relation to which the duties and responsibilities of the occupant of the position to be excluded are alleged to be confidential.

**Time for filing**

- **(2)** If an application in subsection (1) is made in the context of an application for certification, the application in subsection (1) shall be filed on or before the closing date for the application for certification.




**Objection**

**34** 

- **(1)** An objection in respect of a position referred to in section 61 or 73 of the Act may be filed no later than 20 days after receipt of a copy of the application and shall set out
	- **(a)** the position title, description, number and classification, the department or agency to which it belongs and the geographic location of the position; and
	- **(b)** a statement of the grounds for the objection.

**Copy of the objection**

- **(2)** The employee organization filing the objection under (1) shall provide a copy of it to the employer.




**Revocation of order**

**35** An application for revocation of an order in respect of a position under subsection 77(1) of the Act shall set out
- **(a)** the position title, description, number and classification, the department or agency to which it belongs and the geographic location of the position; and
- **(b)** a statement of the grounds for the application for revocation.




#### Procedure for Revocation of Certification



**Application for revocation of certification**

**36** An application for revocation of certification under section 94, 98, 99 or 100 of the Act shall be filed in Form 5 of the schedule.




**Closing date**

**37** On receipt of the application for revocation of certification, the Board must
- **(a)** fix a closing date that is a date that will allow sufficient time for the employees to be notified and for them to respond, considering the number of employees who are affected by the application for revocation of certification and the locations at which they are employed, and that is no less than 15 days and no more than 40 days after the day on which the application for revocation of certification is filed; and
- **(b)** notify the bargaining agent and, if the applicant is a person other than the employer, the employer of the closing date.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 14.





**Copies of notice to employees**

**38** 

- **(1)** The Board must provide the employer with as many copies of the notice of the application for revocation of certification as are necessary considering the number of employees who are affected by the application and the locations at which they are employed.

**Posting of copies of notice**

- **(2)** On receipt of the copies of the notice, an employer shall post them, until the closing date, in conspicuous places where they are most likely to come to the attention of the employees who are affected by the application.

**Statement of compliance**

- **(3)** Immediately after the closing date, the employer shall file a statement that the employer has complied with subsection (2).
> SOR/2014-251, s. 15.





**Bargaining agent’s reply**

**39** 

- **(1)** A bargaining agent shall file a reply to the application for revocation of certification, on or before the closing date, in Form 6 of the schedule.

**Attached document**

- **(2)** The reply shall be accompanied by a copy of any collective agreement or arbitral award applicable to the employees who are affected by the application.




**Statement of opposition**

**40** If an employee or a group of employees is affected by an application for revocation of certification and is in opposition to it, the employee or group of employees may, on or before the closing date, file a statement of opposition in Form 4 of the schedule.




**Amendment**

**41** A person may file an application to amend an application for revocation of certification, reply or statement of opposition filed by that person.




**Documentary evidence**

**42** 

- **(1)** An application for revocation of certification shall be accompanied by the documentary evidence on which the applicant intends to rely to satisfy the Board that the bargaining agent no longer represents a majority of the employees in the bargaining unit.

**Deadline for supplementary documentary evidence**

- **(2)** Any supplementary documentary evidence shall be filed on or before the closing date for the application.




**Form of evidence**

**43** The documentary evidence that the bargaining agent no longer represents a majority of the employees in the bargaining unit shall be in writing and shall be signed by the employees supporting the application.




**Employer — additional documentation**

**44** To verify that the bargaining agent no longer represents a majority of the employees in the bargaining unit, the Board may require the employer to file a list that identifies all of the employees in respect of whom the application is filed, along with either the specimen signatures of the employees, the home addresses of the employees, or both.




#### Representation Votes



**Representation votes**

**45** 

- **(1)** If the Board appoints a returning officer to conduct a representation vote, the returning officer shall determine the validity of ballots in accordance with any directions given by the Board under subsection 65(2) of the Act and shall report the results of the vote to the Board.

**Appointment**

- **(2)** The returning officer may appoint one or more persons, as required, to assist in the conduct of the vote, other than in any tasks referred to in subsection (1).
> SOR/2014-251, s. 16.





**DIVISION 2** 
### [Repealed, SOR/2014-251, s. 17]


**46** [Repealed, SOR/2014-251, s. 17]




**DIVISION 3** 
### Arbitration



**Request for arbitration**

**47** A request for arbitration under subsection 136(1) of the Act that is made to the Chairperson must be filed with the Board in five copies in Form 8 of the schedule.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 18.





**Other party’s proposals**

**48** 

- **(1)** A party that receives a copy of a request for arbitration under subsection 136(1) of the Act may, no later than seven days after receipt of the copy, file in quadruplicate in Form 9 of the schedule its proposals concerning the arbitral award to be made in respect of any term or condition of employment in respect of which the arbitration was requested by the applicant.

**Request for arbitration of additional matters**

- **(2)** A notice referred to in subsection 136(5) of the Act that is made to the Chairperson and that includes a request for arbitration of any other term or condition of employment and a proposal concerning the arbitral award to be made in respect of those other terms or conditions of employment shall be filed in quadruplicate in Form 9 of the schedule.




**Applicant’s proposals**

**49** The applicant may, no later than seven days after receipt of a copy of the notice referred to in subsection 136(5) of the Act, file in quadruplicate in Form 10 of the schedule its proposals concerning the arbitral award to be made in respect of any other term or condition of employment for which arbitration was requested by the other party.




**Representations**

**50** If a party objects to the referral of a matter in dispute under subsection 144(1) of the Act to an arbitration board on the ground that it is not a matter that may be included in an arbitral award, the Chairperson shall give the parties the opportunity to make representations on the matter before referring to the arbitration board.




**Application for review**

**50.1** An application for review of an arbitral award under subsection 158.1(2) of the Act must contain representations on the grounds on which the applicant believes that the arbitral award, or any part of it, does not represent a reasonable application of the factors referred to in section 148 of the Act based on a full consideration of the written submissions provided to the arbitration board.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 19.





**DIVISION 4** 
### Conciliation



**Request for conciliation**

**51** A request for conciliation under subsection 161(1) of the Act that is made to the Chairperson must be filed in five copies with the Board in Form 11 of the schedule.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 20.





**Other party’s proposals**

**52** 

- **(1)** A party that receives a copy of a request for conciliation under subsection 161(1) of the Act may, no later than seven days after receipt of the copy, file in quadruplicate in Form 12 of the schedule its proposals concerning the report to be made in respect of any term or condition of employment for which the conciliation was requested by the applicant.

**Request for conciliation of additional matters**

- **(2)** A notice referred to in subsection 161(4) of the Act that is made to the Chairperson and that includes a request for conciliation of any other term or condition of employment and a proposal concerning the report to be made in respect of those other terms or conditions of employment shall be filed in quadruplicate in Form 12 of the schedule.




**Applicant’s proposals**

**53** The applicant may, no later than seven days after receipt of a copy of the notice referred to in subsection 161(4) of the Act, file in quadruplicate in Form 13 of the schedule its proposals concerning the report to be made in respect of any other term or condition of employment for which conciliation was requested by the other party.




**DIVISION 5** 
### Strike Vote



**Statement respecting strike vote**

**54** The bargaining agent must, no later than the day following that on which the results of a strike vote are announced, file with the Board a statement respecting the strike vote in Form 14 of the schedule.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 21.





**Application to have a strike vote declared invalid**

**55** An application for a declaration that a strike vote is invalid under subsection 184(2) of the Act shall be filed in triplicate in Form 15 of the schedule.




**Bargaining agent’s reply**

**56** A bargaining agent shall, no later than five days after receipt of a copy of the application for a declaration that a strike vote is invalid, file a reply to it.




**DIVISION 6** 
### Complaints Procedure



**Complaint**

**57** A complaint under section 190 of the Act shall be filed in Form 16 of the schedule.




**DIVISION 6.1** 
### Complaint Under Section 133 of the Canada Labour Code



**[Canada Labour Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/L/L-2.md)**

**57.1** A complaint under section 133 of the [Canada Labour Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/L/L-2.md) that is referred to the Commission must be filed in Form 26 of the schedule.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 22.





**DIVISION 7** 
### Declaration That Conduct Is Unlawful



**Application for a declaration that conduct is unlawful**

**58** An application for a declaration that conduct is unlawful under subsection 198(1) of the Act shall be filed in Form 17 of the schedule.




**Reply**

**59** The party that receives a copy of the application shall, no later than seven days after receipt, file a reply.




**DIVISION 8** 
### Consent To Prosecution



**Application to obtain the consent of the Board**

**60** An application to obtain the consent of the Board referred to in section 205 of the Act shall be filed in Form 18 of the schedule.




**PART 2** 
## Grievances



### General Provisions



**Extension of time**

**61** Despite anything in this Part, the time prescribed by this Part or provided for in a grievance procedure contained in a collective agreement for the doing of any act, the presentation of a grievance at any level of the grievance process, the referral of a grievance to adjudication or the providing or filing of any notice, reply or document may be extended, either before or after the expiry of that time,
- **(a)** by agreement between the parties; or
- **(b)** in the interest of fairness, on the application of a party, by the Board or an adjudicator, as the case may be.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 23.





**Suspension of time**

**62** If the parties avail themselves of an informal conflict management system established under section 207 of the Act, the time prescribed in this Part or provided for in a grievance procedure contained in a collective agreement for the presentation of a grievance at a level of the grievance process is suspended until either party gives to the other notice in writing to the contrary.




**Rejection for failure to meet a deadline**

**63** A grievance may be rejected for the reason that the time limit prescribed in this Part for the presentation of the grievance at a lower level has not been met, only if the grievance was rejected at the lower level for that reason.




### Individual Grievances



**Maximum number of levels**

**64** An individual grievance process shall consist of a maximum of three levels.




**Notice of level**

**65** 

- **(1)** An employer shall notify, in accordance with subsection (2), each of its employees of the names or titles of the persons whose decision on a grievance constitutes a level in the individual grievance process and the name or title, as well as the address, of the employee’s immediate supervisor or local officer-in-charge to whom an individual grievance may be presented.

**Posting of notice**

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), an employer shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places where they are most likely to come to the attention of its employees.

**Alternative methods**

- **(3)** If the information required by subsection (1) is more likely to come to the attention of the employees by a means other than posting notices, the Board shall authorize an employer to communicate the information to its employees by a means other than posting notices.




**Individual grievance form**

**66** 

- **(1)** An employer shall prepare a form for an individual grievance that sets out the information to be provided by the grievor, including
	- **(a)** the name, address, telephone number, place of work, position title, division and section or unit and classification of the grievor as well as the name of the grievor’s employer;
	- **(b)** either
		- **(i)** a statement of the nature of each act, omission or other matter that establishes the alleged violation or misinterpretation giving rise to the grievance including, as the case may be, a reference to any relevant provision of a statute or regulation or of a direction or other instrument made or issued by the employer, that deals with the terms and conditions of employment or any relevant provision of a collective agreement or an arbitral award, or
		- **(ii)** a statement of the alleged occurrence or matter affecting the grievor’s terms and conditions of employment;
	- **(c)** the date on which the alleged violation or misinterpretation or the alleged occurrence or matter affecting the grievor’s terms and conditions of employment occurred; and
	- **(d)** the corrective action requested.

**Approval**

- **(2)** The form shall be submitted to the Board for approval, and the Board shall approve it if the form requests the information that is required under paragraphs (1)(a) to (d) and if any other information requested on the form is relevant to resolving the individual grievance.

**Copies**

- **(3)** The employer shall make copies of the approved form available to all of its employees.




**Presentation of grievance**

**67** An employee who wishes to present an individual grievance shall do so on the form provided by the employer and approved by the Board and shall submit it to the employee’s immediate supervisor or the employee’s local officer-in-charge identified under subsection 65(1).




**Deadline for presentation of grievance at first level**

**68** 

- **(1)** A grievor may present an individual grievance at the first level of the individual grievance process no later than 35 days after the earlier of the day on which the grievor received notification and the day on which the grievor had knowledge of the alleged violation or misinterpretation or any occurrence or matter affecting the grievor’s terms and conditions of employment.

**Deadline for presentation at higher level**

- **(2)** A grievor may present an individual grievance at each succeeding level beyond the first level
	- **(a)** no later than 15 days after the day on which the decision of the previous level was received; or
	- **(b)** if a decision of the previous level was not received, no later than 40 days after the expiry of the period within which the decision was required.

**Grievance deemed presented**

- **(3)** An individual grievance is deemed to have been presented within the time referred to in subsection (1) or (2) if, within that time, it is delivered or sent by courier to the grievor’s immediate supervisor or the grievor’s local officer-in-charge identified under subsection 65(1).




**Representation — grievance relating to interpretation or application**

**69** 

- **(1)** A grievor who presents an individual grievance relating to the interpretation or application, in respect of the employee, of a provision of a collective agreement or an arbitral award shall provide, together with the form,
	- **(a)** a declaration signed by an authorized representative of the bargaining agent for the bargaining unit to which the collective agreement or arbitral award applies, indicating that the grievor, in presenting the individual grievance, has the approval of and is represented by the bargaining agent; and
	- **(b)** the address of the authorized representative where documents may be provided.

**Representation — grievance relating to other matters**

- **(2)** A grievor who presents an individual grievance other than the one referred to in subsection (1), and who is represented by another person in presenting the grievance, shall provide, together with the form,
	- **(a)** a declaration signed by the person or, if the person is an employee organization, its authorized representative, indicating that the person or the employee organization agree to act on behalf of the grievor; and
	- **(b)** the address of the person or, if the person is an employee organization, its authorized representative where documents may be provided.




**Receipt and transmission**

**70** On receipt of an individual grievance, the immediate supervisor or the local officer-in-charge identified under subsection 65(1) shall
- **(a)** deliver to the grievor or to the grievor’s representative, if any, a receipt stating the date on which the individual grievance was received by the immediate supervisor or the local officer-in-charge; and
- **(b)** forward the individual grievance to the person whose decision constitutes the appropriate level of the individual grievance process.




**Circumstances in which a level may be eliminated**

**71** An individual grievance may be presented directly at the final level of the individual grievance process without it having been presented at a lower level if the individual grievance relates to classification, a demotion or a termination of employment.




**Deadline for decision**

**72** 

- **(1)** Unless the individual grievance relates to classification, the person whose decision constitutes the appropriate level of the individual grievance process shall provide the decision to the grievor or the grievor’s representative, if any, no later than 20 days after the day on which the individual grievance was received by the grievor’s immediate supervisor or the grievor’s local officer-in-charge identified under subsection 65(1).

**Exception**

- **(2)** If the individual grievance relates to classification, the deadline is 80 days.




**Withdrawal of grievance**

**73** 

- **(1)** A grievor may, by written notice to the grievor’s immediate supervisor or the grievor’s local officer-in-charge identified under subsection 65(1), withdraw an individual grievance at any level of the individual grievance process before a decision is made at the level.

**Receipt and transmission**

- **(2)** On receipt of a notice of withdrawal of an individual grievance, the immediate supervisor or the local officer-in-charge shall
	- **(a)** deliver to the grievor or the grievor’s representative, if any, a receipt stating the date on which the notice was received by the immediate supervisor or local officer-in-charge; and
	- **(b)** forward the notice to the person whose decision constitutes the appropriate level of the individual grievance process.




### Group Grievances



**Maximum number of levels**

**74** A group grievance process shall consist of a maximum of three levels.




**Notice of level**

**75** An employer shall notify the bargaining agent of the employees to whom the group grievance process applies of the name or title, as well as the address, of any person to whom a group grievance may be presented.




**Group grievance form**

**76** 

- **(1)** An employer shall prepare a form for a group grievance that sets out the information to be provided by the bargaining agent, including
	- **(a)** the name of the bargaining agent and the name, address and telephone and fax numbers of the authorized representative of the bargaining agent;
	- **(b)** a statement of the nature of each act, omission or other matter giving rise to the grievance that establishes the alleged violation or misinterpretation, including, as the case may be, a reference to any relevant provision of a collective agreement or an arbitral award;
	- **(c)** the date on which the alleged violation or misinterpretation occurred; and
	- **(d)** the corrective action requested.

**Approval**

- **(2)** The form shall be submitted to the Board for approval, and the Board shall approve it if the form requests the information that is required under paragraphs (1)(a) to (d) and if any other information requested on the form is relevant to resolving the group grievance.

**Copies**

- **(3)** The employer shall make copies of the approved form available to the bargaining agent.




**Presentation of grievance**

**77** 

- **(1)** A bargaining agent who wishes to present a group grievance shall do so on the form provided by the employer and approved by the Board and shall submit it to any person identified under section 75.

**Consent of aggrieved employees**

- **(2)** The bargaining agent shall submit, together with the group grievance, Form 19 of the schedule signed by each of the aggrieved employees who consent to the presentation of the grievance.




**Deadline for presentation of grievance at first level**

**78** 

- **(1)** A bargaining agent may present a group grievance at the first level of the group grievance process no later than 35 days after the earlier of the day on which the aggrieved employees received notification and the day on which they had knowledge of any act, omission or other matter giving rise to the group grievance.

**Deadline for presentation of grievance at higher level**

- **(2)** A bargaining agent may present a group grievance at each succeeding level beyond the first level
	- **(a)** no later than 15 days after the day on which the decision of the previous level was received; or
	- **(b)** if a decision of the previous level was not received, no later than 40 days after the expiry of the period within which the decision was required.

**Grievance deemed presented**

- **(3)** A group grievance is deemed to have been presented within the time referred to in subsection (1) or (2) if, within that time, it is delivered or sent by courier to any person identified under section 75.




**Receipt and transmission**

**79** On receipt of a group grievance, the person identified under to section 75 shall
- **(a)** deliver to the bargaining agent a receipt stating the date on which the group grievance was received by the person; and
- **(b)** forward the group grievance to the person whose decision constitutes the appropriate level of the group grievance process.




**Deadline for decision**

**80** The person whose decision constitutes the appropriate level of the group grievance process shall provide a decision to the bargaining agent no later than 20 days after the day on which the group grievance was received by any person identified under section 75.




**Withdrawal of grievance**

**81** 

- **(1)** A bargaining agent may, by written notice to any person identified under section 75, withdraw a group grievance at any level of the group grievance process before the decision is made at that level.

**Receipt and transmission**

- **(2)** On receipt of a notice of withdrawal of a group grievance, the person identified under to section 75 shall
	- **(a)** deliver to the bargaining agent a receipt stating the date on which the notice was received by the person; and
	- **(b)** forward the notice to the person whose decision constitutes the appropriate level of the group grievance process.




**Withdrawal from a group grievance**

**82** 

- **(1)** A bargaining agent who receives a notice of withdrawal from a group grievance referred to in section 218 of the Act at any level of the group grievance process shall provide a copy of the notice to any person identified under section 75.

**Receipt and transmission**

- **(2)** On receipt of a copy of a notice of withdrawal from a group grievance, the person identified under section 75 shall
	- **(a)** deliver to the bargaining agent a receipt stating the date on which the copy of the notice was received by the person; and
	- **(b)** forward the notice to the person whose decision constitutes the appropriate level of the group grievance process.




### Policy Grievances



**Maximum number of levels**

**83** A policy grievance process shall consist of one level.




**Notice from employer**

**84** 

- **(1)** An employer shall notify the bargaining agent of the name or title, as well as the address, of any person to whom a policy grievance may be presented.

**Notice from bargaining agent**

- **(2)** A bargaining agent shall notify the employer of the name or title, as well as the address, of any person to whom a policy grievance may be presented.




**Deadline for presentation of grievance**

**85** 

- **(1)** A bargaining agent or an employer may present a policy grievance no later than 35 days after the earlier of the day on which it received notification and the day on which it had knowledge of any act, omission or other matter giving rise to the policy grievance.

**Grievance deemed presented**

- **(2)** A policy grievance is deemed to have been presented within the time referred to in subsection (1) if, within that time, it is delivered or sent by courier to any person identified under subsection 84(1) or (2), as the case may be.




**Receipt and transmission**

**86** On receipt of a policy grievance, the person identified under subsection 84(1) or (2), shall
- **(a)** deliver to the bargaining agent or the employer, as the case may be, a receipt stating the date on which the policy grievance was received by the person; and
- **(b)** forward the policy grievance to the person whose decision constitutes the level of the policy grievance process.




**Deadline for decision**

**87** The person whose decision constitutes the level of the policy grievance process shall provide a decision to the bargaining agent or the employer, as the case may be, no later than 20 days after the day on which the policy grievance was received by any person identified under subsection 84(1) or (2), as the case may be.




**Withdrawal of grievance**

**88** 

- **(1)** A bargaining agent or an employer may, by written notice to any person identified under subsection 84(1) or (2), as the case may be, withdraw a policy grievance before the decision is made by the person whose decision constitutes the level of the policy grievance process.

**Receipt and transmission**

- **(2)** On receipt of a notice of withdrawal of a policy grievance, the person identified under subsection 84(1) or (2) shall
	- **(a)** deliver to the bargaining agent or the employer, as the case may be, a receipt stating the date on which the notice was received by the person; and
	- **(b)** forward the notice to the person whose decision constitutes the level of the policy grievance process.




### Adjudication



**Notice of reference to adjudication**

**89** 

- **(1)** A notice of a reference to adjudication shall be filed, together with two copies of the grievance,
	- **(a)** in the case of an individual grievance,
		- **(i)** in Form 20 of the schedule if the grievance relates to the interpretation or application of a provision of a collective agreement or an arbitral award, or
		- **(ii)** in Form 21 of the schedule if the grievance relates to a termination, demotion, suspension, financial penalty or deployment;
	- **(b)** in the case of a group grievance, in Form 22 of the schedule; and
	- **(c)** in the case of a policy grievance, in Form 23 of the schedule.

**Copy of consent form**

- **(2)** If the notice of the reference to adjudication concerns a group grievance, the bargaining agent shall also provide, in duplicate, a copy of the consent form submitted in accordance with subsection 77(2).

**Grievance relating to interpretation or application**

- **(3)** If an individual grievance relates to the interpretation or application, in respect of the grievor, of a provision of a collective agreement or an arbitral award, the notice of the reference to adjudication shall contain a declaration by an authorized representative of the bargaining agent for the bargaining unit to which the collective agreement or arbitral award applies, indicating that the bargaining agent is willing to represent the grievor in the adjudication proceedings.
> SOR/2005-417, s. 1.





**Deadline for reference to adjudication**

**90** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), a grievance may be referred to adjudication no later than 40 days after the day on which the person who presented the grievance received a decision at the final level of the applicable grievance process.

**Exception**

- **(2)** If no decision at the final level of the applicable grievance process was received, a grievance may be referred to adjudication no later than 40 days after the expiry of the period within which the decision was required under this Part or, if there is another period set out in a collective agreement, under the collective agreement.




**Deadline — establishment of board of adjudication**

**91** 

- **(1)** The party that receives a copy of a notice of a reference to adjudication may, no later than 15 days after receipt of the notice,
	- **(a)** if the notice contains a request for the establishment of a board of adjudication, object to the establishment of a board or file a document specifying the name of their nominee as member of the board; or
	- **(b)** in any other case, request the establishment of a board of adjudication.

**Deadline — establishment of board of adjudication**

- **(2)** Where the party that receives a copy of a notice of a reference to adjudication requests the establishment of a board of adjudication, the other party may, no later than 15 days after being provided with a copy of the request, object to the establishment of the board or file a document specifying the name of their nominee as a member of the board.




**Notice to Canadian Human Rights Commission**

**92** 

- **(1)** A notice of a human rights issue under subsection 210(1), 217(1) or 222(1) of the Act shall be given to the Canadian Human Rights Commission in Form 24 of the schedule together with a copy of the grievance and the notice of the reference to adjudication.

**Copies of notice**

- **(2)** The person who gives the notice shall send a copy of it to the Board, the other party, any intervenors and every person in receipt of a copy of the notice of the reference to adjudication by virtue of section 4, unless that person has notified the Board in writing that the person does not wish to receive a copy of subsequent documents.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 24.





**Deadline for notice of intention to make submissions**

**93** 

- **(1)** The Canadian Human Rights Commission may in Form 25 of the schedule, no later than 15 days after being provided with a notice of a human rights issue under subsection 210(1), 217(1) or 222(1) of the Act, notify the Board of whether or not it intends to make submissions regarding the issue raised in the notice.

**Attachments**

- **(2)** The Commission shall submit a copy of the grievance and the notice of the reference to adjudication together with its notice.

**Copies of notice**

- **(3)** On receipt of the notice, the Board must provide copies to the parties and the intervenors.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 25.





**Participation in mediation**

**94** 

- **(1)** The parties must participate in the mediation provided by the Board, unless a party notifies the Board in writing, no later than 15 days after the party that did not refer the grievance to adjudication, receives a copy of the notice of the reference to adjudication that it does not intend to participate.

**Request to mediate**

- **(2)** Despite subsection (1), a party may, after notifying the Board of its intention not to participate in mediation, and with the agreement of the other party, request mediation of the grievance.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 26.





**Deadline for raising objections**

**95** 

- **(1)** A party may, no later than 30 days after being provided with a copy of the notice of the reference to adjudication,
	- **(a)** raise an objection on the grounds that the time limit prescribed in this Part or provided for in a collective agreement for the presentation of a grievance at a level of the grievance process has not been met; or
	- **(b)** raise an objection on the grounds that the time limit prescribed in this Part or provided for in a collective agreement for the reference to adjudication has not been met.

**Objection may not be raised**

- **(2)** The objection referred to in paragraph (1)(a) may be raised only if the grievance was rejected at the level at which the time limit was not met and at all subsequent levels of the grievance process for that reason.

**Objection raised**

- **(3)** If the party raises an objection referred to in subsection (1), it must provide a statement in writing giving details regarding its objection to the Board.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 27.





**Filing with the Board**

**96** An employer or deputy head or, in the case of a policy grievance, the party that did not refer the grievance to adjudication must, no later than 30 days after the day on which that party was provided with a copy of the notice of the reference to adjudication, file with the Board a copy of the decision that was made in respect of the grievance at each level of the applicable grievance process.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 28.





**Documentation**

**97** 

- **(1)** If a grievance relates to the interpretation or application of a provision of a collective agreement or an arbitral award, the party referring the grievance to adjudication must, before or at the hearing, provide a copy of the collective agreement or the arbitral award to the adjudicator or the Board, as the case may be, to the other party or its representative, if any, to the intervenors and, if notice to the Canadian Human Rights Commission is given under subsection 210(1), 217(1) or 222(1) of the Act, to the Canadian Human Rights Commission.

**Bilingualism**

- **(2)** The document shall be filed in both official languages, if it exists in both languages.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 29.




**98** 

- **(1)** [Repealed, SOR/2014-251, s. 30]

**Consolidation by adjudicator**

- **(2)** To ensure the expeditious resolution of proceedings, an adjudicator may direct that any proceedings before the adjudicator be consolidated with any other proceeding before the adjudicator and may issue directions in respect of the conduct of the consolidated proceeding.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 30.





**Addition of party or intervenor**

**99** 

- **(1)** Any person with a substantial interest in a grievance may apply to the Board or the adjudicator, as the case may be, to be added as a party or an intervenor.

**Representations**

- **(2)** The Board or the adjudicator may, after giving the parties the opportunity to make representations in respect of the application, add the person as a party or an intervenor.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 31.





**Insufficient information**

**100** 

- **(1)** The Board or an adjudicator may, on their own initiative or at the request of a party or an intervenor, in a proceeding before the Board or the adjudicator, as the case may be, request that information contained in any document filed by any other party or any other intervenor be made more complete or specific.

**Striking out information**

- **(2)** The Board or an adjudicator may, after giving the party or intervenor to whom the request was made the opportunity to reply to the request, strike from the document the information that is incomplete or insufficiently specific.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 31.





**Notice of pre-hearing conference**

**101** Unless the matter is urgent, the Board must provide the parties and intervenors with notice of a pre-hearing conference at least three days before the day that is fixed for it.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 31.





**Notice of hearing**

**102** 

- **(1)** Unless the matter is urgent, the Board must provide the parties, intervenors and, if notice to the Canadian Human Rights Commission is given under subsection 210(1), 217(1) or 222(1) of the Act, the Canadian Human Rights Commission with a notice of a hearing at least seven days before the day that is fixed for it.

**Failure to attend**

- **(2)** If a person who is provided with a notice of hearing fails to attend the hearing or any continuance of it, the Board or the adjudicator, as the case may be, may proceed with the hearing and dispose of the matter without further notice to that person.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 31.





**Contents of summons application**

**103** The Board or an adjudicator, if necessary for the fair and expeditious resolution of the proceedings before the Board or adjudicator, as the case may be, may require that an application for a summons contain the name and address of the witness to be summoned and a statement of the evidence that the witness is expected to give at the hearing.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 31.





**Document adduced as evidence**

**104** 

- **(1)** Any document adduced as evidence must be filed at the hearing with a copy for the Board or the adjudicator, as the case may be, for each party, for each intervenor and, if notice to the Canadian Human Rights Commission was given under subsection 210(1), 217(1) or 222(1) of the Act, for the Canadian Human Rights Commission.

**Bilingualism**

- **(2)** The document shall be filed in both official languages, if it exists in both languages.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 32.





**Adjournment of hearings**

**105** The Board or adjudicator may adjourn a hearing before the Board or adjudicator, as the case may be, and specify the day, time, place and terms of its continuance.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 33.





**Withdrawal from a group grievance**

**106** A bargaining agent who receives a notice of withdrawal from a group grievance referred to in section 218 of the Act after the grievance has been referred to adjudication must provide a copy of the notice to the Board.
> SOR/2014-251, s. 33.





**PART 3** 
## Transitional Provision, Repeal and Coming into Force



### Transitional



**Transitional**

**107** The P.S.S.R.B Regulations and Rules of Procedure, 1993 continue to apply after the coming into force of section 108 in respect of all proceedings to which the [Public Service Staff Relations Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/P/P-35.md), chapter P-35 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1985, continues to apply as provided under Part 5 of the [Public Service Modernization Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022.md), chapter 22 of the Statutes of Canada, 2003.




### Repeal



**Repeal**

**108** [Repeal]




### Coming into Force



**Coming into force**

<sup><a href='#footnotestar_e'>[*]</a></sup>**109** These Regulations come into force on the day on which section 12 of Part 1 of the [Public Service Modernization Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2003/c.%2022.md), chapter 22 of the Statutes of Canada, 2003, comes into force.

<a name='footnotestar_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: [Note: Regulations in force April 1, 2005, *see* SI/2005-22.]<br />




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Sections 23,26,27,28 and 36, subsection 39(1), sections 40, 47, 48, 49, 51 52 54, 55, 57, 57.1, 58 and 60 and subsection 77(2), 89(1), 92(1) and 93(1))**
### **Form 1**
**(Section 23)**
## Application for Certification
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=40




### **Form 2**
**(Section 26)**
## Reply to an Application for Certification
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=46




### **Form 3**
**(Section 27)**
## Application for Intervention in an Application for Certification
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=51




### **Form 4**
**(Sections 28 and 40)**
## Statement of Opposition
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=55




### **Form 5**
**(Section 36)**
## Application for Revocation of Certification
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=59




### **Form 6**
**(Subsection 39(1))**
## Reply to an Application for Revocation of Certification
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=65




### **Form 7**
[Repealed, SOR/2014-251, s. 35]


### **Form 8**
**(Section 47)**
## Request for Arbitration
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=69




### **Form 9**
**(Section 48)**
## Proposals Concerning a Request for Arbitration or Request for Arbitration of Additional Matters
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=73




### **Form 10**
**(Section 49)**
## Proposals Concerning a Request for Arbitration of Additional Matters
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=77




### **Form 11**
**(Section 51)**
## Request for Conciliation
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=79




### **Form 12**
**(Section 52)**
## Proposals Concerning a Request for Conciliation or Request for Conciliation of Additional Matters
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=83




### **Form 13**
**(Section 53)**
## Proposals Concerning a Request for Conciliation of Additional Matters
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=87




### **Form 14**
**(Section 54)**
## Statement Respecting a Strike Vote
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=89




### **Form 15**
**(Section 55)**
## Application for a Declaration That a Strike Vote Is Invalid
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=93




### **Form 16**
**(Section 57)**
## Complaint Under Section 190 of the Act
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=97




### **Form 17**
**(Section 58)**
## Application for a Declaration That Conduct Is Unlawful
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=103




### **Form 18**
**(Section 60)**
## Application for Consent To Prosecute
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=107




### **Form 19**
**(Subsection 77(2))**
## Consent of Aggrieved Employees to the Presentation of a Group Grievance
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=111




### **Form 20**
**(Subparagraph 89(1)(a)(i))**
## Notice of Reference to Adjudication of an Individual Grievance
## Interpretation or application of a provision of a collective agreement or an arbitral award
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=115




### **Form 21**
**(Subparagraph 89(1)(a)(ii))**
## Notice of Reference to Adjudication of an Individual Grievance
## Termination, demotion, suspension, financial penalty or deployment
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=121




### **Form 22**
**(Paragraph 89(1)(b))**
## Notice of Reference to Adjudication of a Group Grievance
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=127




### **Form 23**
**(Paragraph 89(1)(c))**
## Notice of Reference to Adjudication of a Policy Grievance
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=133




### **Form 24**
**(Subsection 92(1))**
## Notice to the Canadian Human Rights Commission
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=138




### **Form 25**
**(Subsection 93(1))**
## Notice of Intention of the Canadian Human Rights Commission
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=142




### **Form 26**
**(Section 57.1)**
## Complaint Under Section 133 of the Canada Labour Code
For form, see Canada Gazette Part II, SOR/2014-251:

http://www.gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2014/2014-11-19/pdf/g2-14824.pdf#page=144




> SOR/2005-417, s. 2; SOR/2014-251, ss. 34 to 36.


