> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/91/25.md)

# Artists’ Representatives (GST/HST) Regulations

**SOR/91-25**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXCISE TAX ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md)

Date registered: 18 December 1990

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance, pursuant to subsection 277(1)<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[1]</a></sup> of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations prescribing registrants who make supplies of intangible personal property on behalf of artists.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>1</sup></a>: S.C. 1990, c. 45, s. 12<br />



**1** [Repealed, SOR/2014-248, s. 2]




## Prescribed Registrants


**2** Any registrant listed in the schedule is prescribed for the purposes of subsection 177(2) of the [Excise Tax Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-15.md).




### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 2)**
- Canadian Artists’ Representation / *Front des artistes canadiens* (CARFAC)
- Canadian Broadcasters Retransmission Rights Agency Inc. (CBRRA)
- Canadian Music Publishers Association (CMPA)
- Canadian Musical Reproduction Rights Agency Ltd. (CMRRA)
- Canadian Copyright Licensing Agency (CANCOPY)
- Canadian Retransmission Collective (CRC)
- Canadian Retransmission Right Association (CRRA)
- Composers, Authors and Publishers Association of Canada, Limited (CAPAC)
- Connect Music Licensing Service Inc.
- Copyright Collective of Canada (CCC)
- Directors Guild of Canada and its district councils
- Educational Media Producers and Distributors Association of Canada (EMPDAC)
- Educational Rights Collective of Canada (ERCC)
- FWS Joint Sports Claimants Inc.
- *Intermède Musique Média Inc.*
- Major League Baseball Collective of Canada, Inc. (MLBC)
- Morning Music Limited
- Musicians’ Rights Organization Canada (MROC)
- Performing Rights Organization of Canada Limited (PROCAN)
- Producers Audiovisual Collective of Canada / *La Société canadienne de gestion des producteurs de matériel audio-visuel* (PACC)
- Québec Reproduction Rights Collective Administration Society (COPIBEC)
- Re:Sound
- *Société collective de gestion des droits des producteurs de phonogrammes et de vidéogrammes du Québec (SOPROQ)*
- *Société de droits d’auteur des artistes en arts visuels (SODART)*
- *Société de gestion collective de l’Union des Artistes inc. (ARTISTI)*
- *Société des auteurs et compositeurs dramatiques (SACD)*
- *Société des droits d’auteur en arts visuels Inc. (SODAAV)*
- *Société pour l’avancement des droits en audiovisuel Ltée (SADA)*
- *Société québecoise des auteurs dramatiques inc.*
- Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada (SOCAN)
- SODRAC 2003 Inc.
- *Union des écrivaines et écrivains québécois (UNEQ)*
- Vis-Art Copyright Inc.
> SOR/99-174, s. 2; SOR/2001-62, ss. 1, 2; SOR/2003-341, s. 1; SOR/2006-158, ss. 1, 2; SOR/2014-248, ss. 3, 4; SOR/2016-60, s. 1; SOR/2019-59, s. 1; SOR/2019-59, s. 2.


