> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/87/184.md)

# On Board Trains Occupational Health and Safety Regulations

**SOR/87-184**

Enabling authorities: 
- [CANADA LABOUR CODE](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/L/L-2.md)

Date registered: 26 March 1987

----------

Her Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Labour, pursuant to sections 82<sup><a href='#fn_e'>[*]</a></sup> and 83<sup><a href='#fn_e'>[*]</a></sup> and subsection 106(2)<sup><a href='#fn_e'>[*]</a></sup> of the [Canada Labour Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/L/L-2.md), is pleased hereby to approve the annexed Regulations respecting occupational safety and health of employees on trains while in operation made under Part IV of the Canada Labour Code by the Minister of Labour on the recommendation of the Canadian Transport Commission, effective April 2, 1987.

<a name='fn_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: S.C. 1984, c. 39, s. 20<br />



**1** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 2]




**PART I** 
## General



### Interpretation


**1.1** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means Part II of the [Canada Labour Code](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/L/L-2.md); (*Loi*)

***CSA*** means the Canadian Standards Association; (*CSA*)

***Commission***[Repealed, SOR/95-105, s. 3]

***dangerous substance***[Repealed, SOR/88-200, s. 1]

***electrical equipment*** means equipment for the generation, distribution or use of electricity; (*outillage électrique*)

***first aid***[Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 3]

***maintenance of way equipment*** means track motor cars and other rolling stock used for maintaining rails and tracks; (*véhicule d’entretien*)

***medical practitioner***[Repealed, SOR/88-200, s. 1]

***on-board accommodation*** means living, eating or sleeping quarters provided on rolling stock by an employer for the accommodation of employees; (*logement à bord*)

***oxygen deficient atmosphere*** means an atmosphere in which there is less than 18% by volume of oxygen at a pressure of one atmosphere or in which the partial pressure of oxygen is less than 135 mm Hg; (*air à faible teneur en oxygène*)

***protection equipment*** means safety materials, equipment, devices and clothing; (*équipement de protection*)

***qualified person*** means, in respect of a specified duty, a person who, because of his knowledge, training and experience, is qualified to perform that duty safely and properly; (*personne qualifiée*)

***regional safety officer***[Repealed, SOR/2014-148, s. 15]

***rolling stock*** means a locomotive, caboose, self-propelled car, box car, tank car, maintenance of way equipment, snow-plow, flanger and other mobile equipment designed to move on wheels on rails or tracks; (*matériel roulant*)

***toilet room*** means a room that contains a toilet. (*cabinet de toilette*)
> SOR/88-200, s. 1; SOR/95-105, s. 3; SOR/2014-148, s. 15; SOR/2015-143, s. 3.





### Prescription


**1.2** These Regulations are prescribed for the purposes of sections 125, 125.1, 125.2 and 126 of the Act.
> SOR/88-200, s. 2; SOR/95-105, s. 4.





### Application


**1.21** These Regulations apply to any person who is not an employee but who performs for an employer to which these Regulations apply activities whose primary purpose is to enable the person to acquire knowledge or experience, and to the employer, as if that person were an employee of the employer, and every provision of these Regulations must be read accordingly.
> SOR/2015-211, s. 2.




**1.3** These Regulations apply in respect of employees on trains while in operation and in respect of all persons granted access to such trains by the employer.
> SOR/95-105, s. 4.





### Records and Reports


**1.4** An employer’s keeping and maintenance of health and safety records and records of exposure to hazardous substances shall be done in such a manner that the records are readily available for examination by the Minister and by the policy committee or, if there is no policy committee, the work place committee or the health and safety representative for the work place to which they apply.
> SOR/88-200, s. 3; SOR/95-105, s. 4; SOR/2014-148, s. 16; SOR/2015-143, s. 4.





### Inconsistent Provisions


**1.5** In the event of an inconsistency between any standard incorporated by reference in these Regulations and any other provision of these Regulations, that other provision of these Regulations shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.



**1.6** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 5]




**PART II** 
## Elevating Devices



### Interpretation


**2.1** In this Part, ***elevating device*** means an escalator, elevator or other device for moving passengers or freight and that is installed on rolling stock. (*appareil de levage*)
> SOR/95-105, s. 5(E).





### Use and Operation


**2.2** No elevating device shall be used or operated with a load in excess of the load that it was designed and installed to move safely.



**2.3** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (3), no elevating device shall be used or placed in service while any safety device attached thereto is inoperative.

- **(2)** Subject to subsection (3), no safety device attached to an elevating device shall be altered, interfered with or rendered inoperative.

- **(3)** Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to an elevating device or a safety device that is being inspected, tested, repaired or maintained by a qualified person.




### Inspection and Testing


**2.4** Every elevating device and every safety device attached thereto shall be inspected and tested by a qualified person to determine that it is in a safe operating condition and is capable of carrying any load that is likely to be imposed on it
- **(a)** before the elevating device and the safety device attached thereto are placed in service;
- **(b)** after an alteration to the elevating device or a safety device attached thereto; and
- **(c)** once every 12 months.



**2.5** 

- **(1)** A record of each inspection and test made in accordance with section 2.4 shall
	- **(a)** be signed by the qualified person who made the inspection and test;
	- **(b)** include the date of the inspection and test and the identification and location of the elevating device and safety device that were inspected and tested; and
	- **(c)** set out the observations of the qualified person inspecting and testing the elevating device and safety device on the safety of the devices.

- **(2)** Every record referred to in subsection (1) shall be kept by the employer for a period of two years after the date on which it is signed in accordance with paragraph (1)(a).




### Repair and Maintenance


**2.6** Repair and maintenance of elevating devices and safety devices attached thereto shall be performed by a qualified person appointed by the employer.




**PART III** 
## Lighting
> [SOR/2015-143, s. 6]




### Interpretation


**3** 

- **(1)** The following definitions apply in this Part.

***task position*** means a position at which a visual task is performed. (*poste de travail*)

***VDT*** means a visual display terminal. (*TEV*)

- **(2)** For the purposes of this Part, 1 lx is equal to 0.0929 foot candle.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 7.





### General


**3.1** 

- **(1)** The levels of lighting prescribed in this Part shall, where reasonably practicable, be provided by a lighting system installed by the employer.

- **(2)** Where it is not reasonably practicable to comply with subsection (1), the employer shall provide portable lanterns that give the prescribed levels of lighting.
> SOR/95-105, s. 6(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 8(F).





### Measurement of Levels of Lighting
> [SOR/2015-143, s. 9(F)]



**3.2** For the purposes of this Part, the average level of lighting at a task position or in an area shall be determined
- **(a)** by making one measurement at four different places that are representative of the level of lighting at the task position or that, in an area, are representative of the level of lighting 1 m above the floor of the area; and
- **(b)** by dividing the aggregate of the results of those measurements by four.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 10.





### Minimum Levels of Lighting
> [SOR/2015-143, s. 11(F)]



**3.3** The level of lighting in an area referred to in Column I of an item of Schedule I to this Part shall be not less than the level set out in Column II.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 12.




**3.4** The level of lighting in an area referred to in Column I of an item of Schedule II to this Part shall be not less than the level set out in Column II.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 12.





### Lighting — VDT


**3.4.1** 

- **(1)** The average level of lighting at a task position set out in Column I of Schedule III to this Part shall not be more than the level set out in Column II.

- **(2)** Reflection glare on a VDT screen shall be limited so that an employee at a task position is able to
	- **(a)** read every portion of any text displayed on the screen; and
	- **(b)** see every portion of the visual display on the screen.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 12.





### Emergency Lighting


**3.5** 

- **(1)** Where there is a failure in the lighting system in an area through which an employee passes in carrying out procedures referred to in paragraph 13.7(2)(a), emergency lighting shall be available in the area for immediate use.

- **(2)** The emergency lighting referred to in subsection (1) shall
	- **(a)** where reasonably practicable, operate automatically in the event of a failure of the lighting system; and
	- **(b)** provide an average level of lighting of not less than 10 lx.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 13.





### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(Section 3.3)**
<table>
<h4>Levels of Lighting in Cabooses, Locomotives and Maintenance of Way Equipment</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Area</th>
<th>Level of lighting (lx)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Work surfaces while being used to read or write operating orders, timetables or other operating documents</td>
<td>220</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Work surfaces of equipment while being repaired or maintained</td>
<td>220</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Corridors, passageways, toilet rooms and on-board accommodations while being used by employees</td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Areas where meters and gauges are located, other than those that are self-illuminated</td>
<td>30</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2015-143, ss. 14(F), 15.




### **SCHEDULE II** 
**(Section 3.4)**
<table>
<h4>Levels of Lighting Off Rolling Stock</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Area</th>
<th>Level of lighting (lx)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Areas where employees are engaged in the flagging, switching and marshalling of rolling stock</td>
<td>50</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2015-143, ss. 16(F), 17.




### **SCHEDULE III** 
**(Section 3.4.1)**
<table>
<h4>Levels of Lighting — VDT Work</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Task position</th>
<th>Level of lighting (lx)</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>VDT task positions at which data entry and retrieval work are performed intermittently </td>
<td>500</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>VDT task positions at which data entry work is performed exclusively </td>
<td>750</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2015-143, s. 18.




**PART IV** 
## Levels of Sound



### Interpretation


**4.1** The following definitions apply in this Part.

***A-weighted sound pressure level*** means a sound pressure level as determined by a measurement system which includes an A-weighting filter that meets the requirements set out in the International Electrotechnical Commission’s International Standard IEC 61672-1, first edition 2002-05, entitled Electroacoustics – Sound Level Meters. (*niveau de pression acoustique pondérée A*)

***dBA*** means decibel A-weighted and is a unit of A-weighted sound pressure level. (*dBA*)

***noise exposure level (L<sub>ex,8</sub>)*** means the level equal to 10 times the logarithm to the base 10 of the time integral over any 24-hour period of a squared A-weighted sound pressure divided by 8, the reference sound pressure being 20 µPa. (*niveau d’exposition (L<sub>ex,8</sub>)*)

***sound level meter*** means an instrument for measuring levels of sound and impulse sound that meets the requirements set out in the International Electrotechnical Commission’s International Standard IEC 61672-1, first edition 2002-05, entitled Electroacoustics – Sound Level Meters. (*sonomètre*)

***sound pressure level*** means the level equal to 20 times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the root mean square pressure of a sound to the reference sound pressure of 20 µPa, expressed in decibels. (*niveau de pression acoustique*)
> SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### Measurement and Calculation of Exposure


**4.2** 

- **(1)** For the purposes of this Part, the exposure of an employee to sound shall be measured using an instrument that
	- **(a)** is recommended for that measurement in clause 4.3 of CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z107.56-06, Procedures for the Measurement of Occupational Noise Exposure, as amended from time to time; and
	- **(b)** meets the requirements for such an instrument set out in clause 4 of that Standard.

- **(2)** The exposure of an employee to sound shall be measured in accordance with clauses 5, 6.4.1, 6.4.4, 6.5.2, 6.5.4, 6.6.2 and 6.6.4 of the Standard that is referred to in paragraph (1)(a).

- **(3)** For the purposes of this Part, the measurement and calculation of the noise exposure level (L<sub>ex,8</sub>) to which an employee is exposed shall take into account the exposure of the employee to A-weighted sound pressure levels of 74 dBA or more.

- **(4)** The measurement and calculation of the noise exposure level (L<sub>ex,8</sub>) referred to in subsection (3) may also take into account the exposure of the employee to A-weighted sound pressure levels that are less than 74 dBA.
> SOR/95-105, s. 7; SOR/2014-148, s. 17; SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### Hazard Investigation


**4.3** 

- **(1)** If an employee in a work place may be exposed to an A-weighted sound pressure level of 84 dBA or more for a duration that is likely to endanger the employee’s hearing, the employer shall, without delay,
	- **(a)** appoint a qualified person to carry out an investigation of the degree of exposure; and
	- **(b)** notify the work place committee or the health and safety representative of the investigation and the qualified person’s name.

- **(2)** For the purposes of subsection (1), the measurement of the A-weighted sound pressure level in a work place shall be performed instantaneously, during normal working conditions, using the slow response setting of a sound level meter.

- **(3)** In the investigation referred to in subsection (1), the following matters shall be considered:
	- **(a)** the sources of sound in the work place;
	- **(b)** the A-weighted sound pressure levels to which the employee is likely to be exposed and the duration of such exposure;
	- **(c)** the methods being used to reduce this exposure;
	- **(d)** whether the exposure of the employee is likely to exceed the limits set out in section 4.4; and
	- **(e)** whether the employee is likely to be exposed to a noise exposure level (L<sub>ex,8</sub>) of 84 dBA or more.

- **(4)** On completing the investigation and after consulting with the work place committee or the health and safety representative, the qualified person shall make, sign and date a written report that contains their
	- **(a)** observations respecting the matters set out in subsection (3);
	- **(b)** recommendations respecting the measures that should be taken in order to comply with sections 4.4 to 4.8; and
	- **(c)** recommendations respecting the use of hearing protectors by employees who are exposed to a noise exposure level (L<sub>ex,8</sub>) of 84 dBA or more but not more than 87 dBA.

- **(5)** The employer shall keep the report at a location that is accessible to affected employees for a period of 10 years after the date of the report.

- **(6)** If the report states that an employee is likely to be exposed to a noise exposure level (L<sub>ex,8</sub>) of 84 dBA or more, the employer shall, without delay,
	- **(a)** post and keep posted a copy of the report in a conspicuous place accessible to the employee; and
	- **(b)** provide the employee with written information that describes the hazards associated with exposure to high levels of sound.
> SOR/95-105, s. 61(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### Limits of Exposure


**4.4** No employee in a work place shall be exposed
- **(a)** in any 24-hour period, to an A-weighted sound pressure level set out in column I of the schedule to this Part for a duration of exposure that exceeds the applicable duration set out in column II; or
- **(b)** at any time, to a noise exposure level (L<sub>ex,8</sub>) of more than 87 dBA.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### Reduction of Sound Exposure


**4.5** If an employee’s exposure to sound exceeds a limit set out in section 4.4, an employer shall, if it is reasonably practicable to do so, by engineering controls or other physical means other than hearing protectors, reduce the employee’s exposure to sound to a level that does not exceed that limit.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### Report to Minister


**4.6** If it is not reasonably practicable, without providing hearing protectors, for an employer to limit the exposure of an employee to whom section 4.4 applies to sound to a level that does not exceed the limits set out in that section, the employer shall, without delay,
- **(a)** make a report in writing to the Minister setting out the reasons why it is not reasonably practicable to do so; and
- **(b)** provide a copy of the report to the work place committee or the health and safety representative.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### Hearing Protection


**4.7** 

- **(1)** An employer who is required to make a report under section 4.6 shall, as soon as practicable, provide every employee whose exposure to sound is likely to exceed a limit set out in section 4.4 with a hearing protector that
	- **(a)** meets the requirements set out in CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.2-02, Hearing Protection Devices – Performance, Selection, Care, and Use, as amended from time to time; and
	- **(b)** prevents the employee from being exposed to a level of sound that exceeds a limit set out in section 4.4.

- **(2)** If an employer provides a hearing protector to an employee, the employer shall, in consultation with the work place committee or the health and safety representative, develop a program to train the employee in the fit, care and use of the hearing protector and shall implement the program.

- **(3)** If an employer grants a person who is not an employee access to a work place where the person is likely to be exposed to a level of sound that exceeds a limit set out in section 4.4, the employer shall ensure that the person uses a hearing protector that meets the requirements set out in the Standard that is referred to in paragraph (1)(a).
> SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### Warning Signs


**4.8** 

- **(1)** If an employee may be exposed to an A-weighted sound pressure level of more than 87 dBA at a work place, the employer shall, in conspicuous places within the work place, post and keep posted signs warning of a potentially hazardous level of sound.

- **(2)** In order to determine whether an employee may be exposed to an A-weighted sound pressure level of more than 87 dBA at a work place, the measurement of the A-weighted sound pressure level shall be performed instantaneously, during normal working conditions, using the slow response setting of a sound level meter.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 19.





### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 4.4)**
<table>
<h4>Maximum Duration of Exposure to A-Weighted Sound Pressure Levels in the Work Place</h4>
<tr>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>A-weighted sound pressure level (dBA)</th>
<th>Maximum duration of exposure in hours per employee per 24-hour period</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>87</td>
<td>8.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>88</td>
<td>6.4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>89</td>
<td>5.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>90</td>
<td>4.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>91</td>
<td>3.2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>92</td>
<td>2.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>93</td>
<td>2.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>94</td>
<td>1.6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>95</td>
<td>1.3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>96</td>
<td>1.0</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>97</td>
<td>0.80</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>98</td>
<td>0.64</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>99</td>
<td>0.50</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>100</td>
<td>0.40</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>101</td>
<td>0.32</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>102</td>
<td>0.25</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>103</td>
<td>0.20</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>104</td>
<td>0.16</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>105</td>
<td>0.13</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>106</td>
<td>0.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>107</td>
<td>0.080</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>108</td>
<td>0.064</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>109</td>
<td>0.050</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>110</td>
<td>0.040</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>111</td>
<td>0.032</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>112</td>
<td>0.025</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>113</td>
<td>0.020</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>114</td>
<td>0.016</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>115</td>
<td>0.013</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>116</td>
<td>0.010</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>117</td>
<td>0.008</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>118</td>
<td>0.006</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>119</td>
<td>0.005</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>120</td>
<td>0.004</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2015-143, s. 19.




**PART V** 
## Electrical Safety



### Interpretation


**5.1** In this Part,

***control device*** means a device that will safely disconnect electrical equipment from its source of energy; (*dispositif de commande*)

***guarded*** means, in respect of electrical equipment, equipment that is
- **(a)** covered, shielded, enclosed or otherwise protected in a manner that prevents injury to an employee who touches or goes near the equipment, or
- **(b)** in a place inaccessible to employees. (*protégé*)




### Safety Procedures


**5.2** 

- **(1)** Where work, other than the work referred to in subsection (2), is performed on electrical equipment, the employer shall adopt and implement Part VIII of the [Canada Occupational Health and Safety Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/86/304.md).

- **(2)** Where an employee is required to throw switches, change light bulbs or fuses or perform other work that requires no electrical training, the following procedures apply:
	- **(a)** where electrical equipment is live or may become live, no employee shall work on the equipment unless the employer has instructed the employee in procedures that are safe for work on live conductors;
	- **(b)** subject to paragraph (c), where an employee is working on or near electrical equipment that is live or may become live, the electrical equipment shall be guarded; and
	- **(c)** where it is not practicable for electrical equipment referred to in paragraph (b) to be guarded, the employer shall take measures to protect the employee from injury by insulating the equipment from the employee or the employee from ground.
> SOR/95-105, s. 8(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 72.





### Switches and Control Devices


**5.3** 

- **(1)** Every control device shall be so designed and located as to permit quick and safe operation at all times.

- **(2)** The path of access to every electrical switch, control device or meter shall be free from obstruction.

- **(3)** Where an electrical switch or other control device controlling the supply of electrical energy to electrical equipment is operated only by a person authorized to do so by the employer, the switch or control device shall be fitted with a locking device that only the authorized person can activate.




**PART VI** 
## Sanitation



### Interpretation
> [SOR/2015-143, s. 20(F)]



**6.1** In this Part, ***food preparation area*** includes an area used for the storage of food.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 21.





### General


**6.2** 

- **(1)** Every employer shall maintain each on-board accommodation and food preparation area used by employees in a clean and sanitary condition.

- **(2)** On-board accommodation and food preparation areas shall be so used by employees that the accommodation or areas remain as clean and in as sanitary a condition as is possible.
> SOR/95-105, s. 9(E).




**6.3** All janitorial work that may cause dusty or unsanitary conditions shall be carried out in a manner that will prevent the contamination of the air by dust or other substances injurious to health.



**6.4** All on-board accommodation and toilet rooms shall be constructed and maintained in a manner that prevents adverse health and safety conditions.
> SOR/95-105, s. 10(F).




**6.5** 

- **(1)** In rolling stock on which there is on-board accommodation, the food preparation area shall be separated from the sleeping quarters.

- **(2)** In every on-board accommodation,
	- **(a)** garbage disposal facilities shall be provided to prevent the accumulation of garbage; and
	- **(b)** potable water, heating, ventilation and sanitary sewage systems shall be provided.
> SOR/95-105, s. 11(E); SOR/2015-143, s. 22.




**6.6** 

- **(1)** Each garbage container that is used for solid or liquid waste in a work place shall
	- **(a)** be equipped with a tight-fitting cover;
	- **(b)** be so constructed that it can easily be cleaned and maintained in a sanitary condition; and
	- **(c)** be leak-proof.

- **(2)** Each garbage container referred to in subsection (1) shall be emptied at least once every day that it is used.



**6.7** 

- **(1)** An employer shall ensure that each enclosed part of a work place and each on-board accommodation, toilet room and food preparation area is constructed, equipped and maintained in a manner that will prevent the entrance of vermin.

- **(2)** If vermin enter any enclosed part of a work place or any on-board accommodation, toilet room or food preparation area, the employer shall without delay take all steps necessary to eliminate the vermin and prevent any further entries.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 23.




**6.8** No person shall use on-board accommodation, a toilet room or a food preparation area for the purpose of storing equipment unless
- **(a)** a storage closet fitted with a door is provided in the on-board accommodation, toilet room or food preparation area; or
- **(b)** the equipment is secured in a manner that protects employees from injury.



**6.9** In each on-board accommodation, toilet room and food preparation area, the temperature, measured 1 m above the floor in the centre of the room or area, shall, where reasonably practicable, be maintained at a level of not less than 18°C and not more than 29°C.
> SOR/95-105, s. 12(F).




**6.10** 

- **(1)** In each on-board accommodation, toilet room and food preparation area, the floors, partitions and walls shall be so constructed that they can be easily washed and maintained in a sanitary condition.

- **(2)** The floor and lower 150 mm of any walls and partitions that are in contact with the floor in any food preparation area or toilet room shall be water-tight and impervious to moisture.
> SOR/95-105, s. 13(F).





### Toilet Rooms


**6.11** 

- **(1)** Where reasonably practicable, every employer shall provide a toilet room on rolling stock, other than rolling stock designed for transporting freight and maintenance of way equipment.

- **(2)** Where it is not reasonably practicable to provide a toilet room pursuant to subsection (1), the employer shall provide a toilet room that is readily accessible to employees and is
	- **(a)** off the rolling stock; or
	- **(b)** coupled to the rolling stock.
> SOR/95-105, s. 14(F).




**6.12** Every toilet room shall be fitted on the inside with a locking device that can be opened from the outside in an emergency.



**6.13** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), where a toilet room is provided pursuant to section 6.11 and employees of both sexes are employed at the same work place, an employer shall provide a separate toilet room for employees of each sex.

- **(2)** An employer may provide only one toilet room for employees of both sexes if the toilet room is completely enclosed with solid material that is non-transparent from the outside.

- **(3)** Where separate toilet rooms are provided for employees of each sex, each toilet room shall be equipped with a door that is clearly marked to indicate the sex of the employees for whom the room is provided.



**6.14** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the toilet provided in a toilet room shall
	- **(a)** in the case of a locomotive, be of the self-contained chemical flush type; and
	- **(b)** in the case of a caboose, be of such a type and construction that waste is not deposited on the track bed or on any part of the caboose.

- **(2)** Outside flush or dryhopper type toilets that are suitable for year-round use may be used in a locomotive or caboose if they were installed in that locomotive or caboose prior to May 1, 1969.



**6.15** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), every toilet room shall be provided with
	- **(a)** toilet paper on a holder or in a dispenser; and
	- **(b)** hand cleaning and drying supplies.

- **(2)** An employer may provide toilet paper and hand cleaning and drying supplies to each individual employee.

- **(3)** In or adjacent to every toilet room, a non-combustible container shall be provided for the disposal of hand cleaning and drying supplies.

- **(4)** A covered container or a bag that is impervious to moisture shall be provided for the disposal of sanitary napkins in each toilet room for the use of female employees.
> SOR/95-105, s. 15.




**6.16** Every employer shall, where reasonably practicable, provide at each washbasin in a toilet room hot and cold running water.
> SOR/95-105, s. 16(F).




**6.17** Hot water that is provided to employees for personal washing shall be maintained at a temperature of not less than 35°C and not more than 43°C and shall not be heated by mixing with steam.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 24.




**6.18** In every toilet room that contains a washbasin, the employer shall provide soap or another cleaning agent in a dispenser at the washbasin.




### Potable Water


**6.19** Potable water that is provided to employees for drinking, personal washing and food preparation shall meet the standards set out in the Guidelines for Canadian Drinking Water Quality – Summary Table, prepared by the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Committee on Drinking Water of the Federal-Provincial-Territorial Committee on Health and the Environment and published by the Department of Health, as amended from time to time.
> SOR/95-105, s. 17; SOR/2015-143, s. 25.




**6.20** Where it is necessary to transport water for drinking, personal washing or food preparation, only sanitary portable water containers shall be used.



**6.21** Where a portable storage container for drinking water is used,
- **(a)** the container shall be securely covered and closed;
- **(b)** the container shall be used only for the purpose of storing potable water;
- **(c)** the container shall not be stored in a toilet room; and
- **(d)** where the container is not a single-use storage container, water shall be drawn from it by
	- **(i)** a tap,
	- **(ii)** a ladle used only for the purpose of drawing water from the container, or
	- **(iii)** any other means that precludes the contamination of the water.



**6.22** Except where drinking water is supplied by a drinking fountain or a single-use portable storage container, sanitary single-use drinking cups shall be provided.



**6.23** Any ice that is added to drinking water or used for the contact refrigeration of foodstuffs shall be
- **(a)** made from potable water; and
- **(b)** stored and handled in a manner that prevents contamination.



**6.24** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 26]




### Preparation, Handling, Storage and Serving of Food


**6.25** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 27]



**6.26** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 27]



**6.27** 

- **(1)** Foods that require refrigeration to prevent them from becoming hazardous to health shall be maintained at a temperature of 4°C or lower.

- **(2)** Where foods stored by the employer for consumption by employees require freezing to prevent them from becoming hazardous to health, the foods shall be maintained at a temperature of -11°C or lower.



**6.28** All equipment and utensils that come into contact with food shall be
- **(a)** designed to be easily cleaned;
- **(b)** smooth, free from cracks, crevices, pitting or unnecessary indentations; and
- **(c)** cleaned to maintain their surfaces in a sanitary condition.



**6.29** No person shall eat, prepare or store food
- **(a)** in a place where a hazardous substance may contaminate food, dishes or utensils;
- **(b)** in a toilet room; or
- **(c)** in any other place where food is likely to be contaminated.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





### Food Waste and Garbage


**6.30** 

- **(1)** No food waste or garbage shall be stored in a food preparation area.

- **(2)** The employer shall ensure that an employee who is responsible for handling food waste and garbage or for removing it from a food preparation area does so in accordance with subsections (3) to (5).

- **(3)** Wet food waste and garbage shall be
	- **(a)** disposed of by mechanical grinders or choppers connected to sewage disposal lines; or
	- **(b)** held in leak-proof, non-absorptive, easily-cleaned containers with tight-fitting covers in a separate enclosed area or container until removal for disposal.

- **(4)** Dry food waste and garbage shall be removed or incinerated.

- **(5)** Food waste and garbage containers shall be fitted with covers and the food waste and garbage shall be removed as frequently as is necessary to prevent unsanitary conditions.

- **(6)** Food waste and garbage containers shall be cleaned and disinfected in an area separate from the food preparation area each time they are emptied.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 28.





### Ventilation


**6.31** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), where reasonably practicable, the exhaust system for on-board accommodation, a toilet room or a food preparation area
	- **(a)** shall be of a mechanical type; and
	- **(b)** shall not be connected with any other exhaust or air supply system.

- **(2)** The exhaust system for on-board accommodation, a toilet room or a food preparation area may be connected to the exhaust duct of another room at the exhaust fan inlet if it is connected in such a manner that an exchange of air between those rooms or areas cannot occur.
> SOR/95-105, s. 18(F).





### Clothing Storage


**6.32** Clothing storage facilities shall be provided by the employer for the storage of overcoats and other clothes not worn by employees while they are working.




### Sleeping Quarters


**6.33** In any on-board accommodation provided as sleeping quarters, each employee shall be provided with
- **(a)** a separate bed or bunk that is not part of a unit that is more than double-tiered and is so constructed that it can be easily cleaned and disinfected;
- **(b)** a mattress, pillow, blanket and bed cover that are kept in a clean and sanitary condition; and
- **(c)** at least once a week, clean laundered sheets and a pillow case.




**PART VII** 
## Hazardous Substances
> [SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F)]




### Interpretation


**7.1** In this Part,

***hazard information*** means, in respect of a hazardous substance, information on the proper and safe storage, handling and use of the hazardous substance, including information relating to its toxicological properties; (*renseignements sur les dangers*)

***lower explosive limit*** means the lower limit of flammability of a chemical agent or a combination of chemical agents at ambient temperature and pressure, expressed
- **(a)** for a gas or vapour, as a percentage in air by volume, and
- **(b)** for dust, as the weight of dust per volume of air; (*limite explosive inférieure*)

***product identifier*** means, in respect of a hazardous substance, the brand name, code name or code number specified by the supplier or employer or the chemical name, common name, generic name or trade name; (*identificateur du produit*)

***readily available*** means present in an appropriate place in a physical copy form that can be handled; (*facilement accessible*)

***supplier*** means a person who is a manufacturer, processor or Packager of a hazardous substance or a person who, in the course of business, imports or sells a hazardous substance. (*fournisseur*) 
> SOR/88-200, s. 4; SOR/95-105, s. 19(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





### Application


**7.2** This Part does not apply to the handling or transportation of dangerous goods to which the [Transportation of Dangerous Goods Act, 1992](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1992/c.%2034.md) and the regulations made under that Act apply.
> SOR/88-200, s. 5; SOR/2015-143, s. 29.





**DIVISION I** 
### General
> [SOR/88-200, s. 6]




#### Records of Hazardous Substances


**7.2.1** An employer shall keep and maintain a record of all hazardous substances that, in the work place, are used, produced, handled, or stored for use in the work place, and may either keep and maintain a record in each work place or keep and maintain in one work place a centralized record in respect of several work places.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 30.





#### Hazard Investigation


**7.3** 

- **(1)** If there is a likelihood that the health or safety of an employee in a work place is or may be endangered by exposure to a hazardous substance, the employer shall, without delay,
	- **(a)** appoint a qualified person to carry out an investigation in that regard; and
	- **(b)** notify the work place committee or the health and safety representative of the investigation and the qualified person’s name.

- **(2)** In the investigation, the following matters shall be considered:
	- **(a)** the chemical, biological and physical properties of the hazardous substance;
	- **(b)** the routes of exposure to the hazardous substance;
	- **(c)** the acute and chronic effects on health of exposure to the hazardous substance;
	- **(d)** the quantity of the hazardous substance to be handled;
	- **(e)** the manner in which the hazardous substance is stored, used, handled and disposed of;
	- **(f)** the control methods used to eliminate or reduce exposure of employees to the hazardous substance;
	- **(g)** the concentration or level of the hazardous substance to which an employee is likely to be exposed;
	- **(h)** whether the concentration of an airborne chemical agent is likely to be greater than 50% of the value referred to in paragraph 7.20(1)(a) for that chemical agent or whether the level of ionizing or non-ionizing radiation is likely to be greater than any applicable limit referred to in subsection 7.23(2) or (3); and
	- **(i)** whether the level referred to in paragraph (g) is greater than any maximum applicable level set out in Part III or less than any minimum applicable level set out in that Part.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/95-105, s. 20; SOR/2015-143, ss. 31, 73(F).




**7.4** On completing the investigation and after consulting with the work place committee or the health and safety representative,
- **(a)** the qualified person shall make, sign and date a written report that contains their
	- **(i)** observations respecting the matters set out in subsection 7.3(2), and
	- **(ii)** recommendations respecting the measures that should be taken in order to comply with sections 7.6 to 7.23, including recommendations respecting sampling and testing methods; and
- **(b)** the employer shall develop and maintain a written procedure for the control of the concentration or level of the hazardous substance in the work place.
> SOR/95-105, s. 21; SOR/2015-143, s. 32.




**7.5** The employer shall keep the report for a period of 30 years after the date of the report.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 32.





#### Substitution of Substances


**7.6** 

- **(1)** No person shall use a hazardous substance for any purpose in a work place where it is reasonably practicable to substitute for it a substance that is not a hazardous substance.

- **(2)** Where a hazardous substance is to be used for any purpose in a work place and an equivalent substance that is less hazardous is available to be used for that purpose, the equivalent substance shall be substituted for the hazardous substance where reasonably practicable.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/95-105, s. 22; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





#### Ventilation


**7.7** Every ventilation system used to control the concentration of an airborne hazardous substance shall be so designed, constructed and installed that
- **(a)** the concentration of the airborne hazardous substance does not exceed the values and percentages referred to in sections 7.20 and 7.21; and
- **(b)** if there is no value or percentage set out in respect of the airborne hazardous substance, its concentration is not hazardous to the health or safety of employees.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/95-105, s. 23; SOR/2015-143, ss. 33, 73(F).





#### Storage, Handling and Use


**7.8** Every hazardous substance stored, handled or used in a work place shall be stored, handled or used in a manner whereby the hazard related to that substance is reduced to a minimum.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).




**7.9** Subject to section 7.11, if a hazardous substance is stored, handled or used in a work place, any hazard resulting from that storage, handling or use shall be confined to as small an area as practicable.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 34.




**7.9.1** Every container for a hazardous substance that is used in a work place shall be designed and constructed in such a way that it protects employees from any health or safety hazard that is caused by the hazardous substance.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 34.




**7.10** The quantity of a hazardous substance used or processed in a work place shall, to the extent that is practicable, be limited to the quantity required for use or processing in the work place in one work day.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).




**7.11** If, in a work place, a hazardous substance is capable of combining with another substance to form an ignitable combination and there exists a hazard of ignition of the combination by static electricity, the employer shall comply with the standards set out in the 2007 edition of the United States National Fire Protection Association publication NFPA 77 entitled Recommended Practice on Static Electricity.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 35.




**7.12 to 7.14** [Repealed, SOR/88-200, s. 7]




#### Assembly of Pipes


**7.15** Every assembly of pipes, pipe fittings, valves, safety devices, pumps, compressors and other fixed equipment that is used for transferring a hazardous substance from one location to another shall be
- **(a)** labelled to identify the hazardous substance transferred therein;
- **(b)** fitted with valves and other control and safety devices to ensure its safe operation; and
- **(c)** adequate for its intended purpose having regard to the corrosiveness, pressure, temperature and other properties of the hazardous substance transferred therein.
> SOR/88-200, ss. 8, 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





#### Employee Education


**7.16** 

- **(1)** An employer shall develop and implement an employee education program with respect to hazard prevention and control at the work place in consultation with the policy committee or, if there is no policy committee, the work place committee or the health and safety representative.

- **(2)** The employee education program referred to in subsection (1) shall include
	- **(a)** the instruction of each employee who handles or is exposed to or is likely to handle or be exposed to a hazardous substance with respect to
		- **(i)** the product identifier of the hazardous substance,
		- **(ii)** all hazard information disclosed by the supplier of the hazardous substance or by the employer on a material safety data sheet or label,
		- **(iii)** all hazard information of which the employer is aware or ought reasonably to be aware,
		- **(iv)** the observations referred to in subparagraph 7.4(a)(i),
		- **(v)** the information disclosed on the material safety data sheet referred to in section 7.25 and the purpose and significance of that information, and
		- **(vi)** in respect of controlled products in the work place, the information required to be disclosed on a material safety data sheet and on a label by Division III and the purposes and significance of that information;
	- **(b)** the instruction and training of each employee who operates, maintains or repairs an assembly of pipes referred to in section 7.15 with respect to
		- **(i)** every valve and other control and safety device connected to the assembly of pipes, and
		- **(ii)** the procedures to follow for the proper and safe use of the assembly of pipes; and
	- **(c)** the instruction and training of each employee referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) with respect to
		- **(i)** the procedures to follow to implement the provisions of sections 7.8, 7.9 and 7.11, and
		- **(ii)** the procedures to follow for the safe storage, handling, use and disposal of hazardous substances, including procedures to be followed in an emergency involving a hazardous substance.

- **(3)** An employer shall, in consultation with the policy committee or, if there is no policy committee, the work place committee or the health and safety representative, review the employee education program referred to in subsection (1) and, if necessary, revise it
	- **(a)** at least once a year;
	- **(b)** whenever there is a change in conditions in respect of the hazardous substances in the work place; and
	- **(c)** whenever new hazard information in respect of a hazardous substance in the work place becomes available to the employer.
> SOR/88-200, s. 9; SOR/95-105, s. 24; SOR/2015-143, ss. 36, 73(F).




**7.17** [Repealed, SOR/88-200, s. 9]



**7.18** 

- **(1)** A written record of the employee education program referred to in subsection 7.16(1) shall be kept by the employer
	- **(a)** readily available for examination by the employee; and
	- **(b)** for two years after the employee ceases
		- **(i)** to handle or be exposed to the hazardous substance or to be likely to handle or be exposed to the hazardous substance,
		- **(ii)** to operate, maintain or repair the assembly of pipes.

- **(2)** The record referred to in subsection (1) shall include the name of the employee who was instructed and trained and the date of the instruction and training.
> SOR/88-200, s. 10; SOR/95-105, s. 25(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





#### Medical Examinations


**7.19** 

- **(1)** Where the report referred to in section 7.4 contains a recommendation for a medical examination, the employer may consult a physician regarding that recommendation.

- **(2)** Where the employer
	- **(a)** consults a physician pursuant to subsection (1) and the physician confirms the recommendation for a medical examination, or
	- **(b)** does not consult a physician pursuant to subsection (1),
the employer shall not permit an employee to work with the hazardous substance in the work place until a physician, acceptable to the employee, has examined the employee and declared the employee fit for work with the hazardous substance.

- **(3)** Where an employer consults a physician pursuant to subsection (1), the employer shall keep a copy of the decision of the physician with the report referred to in section 7.4.

- **(4)** The cost of a medical examination referred to in subsection (2) shall be borne by the employer.
> SOR/88-200, ss. 11(E), 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





#### Control of Hazards


**7.20** 

- **(1)** No employee shall be exposed to a concentration of
	- **(a)** an airborne chemical agent that is greater than the value for that chemical agent adopted by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists in its publication entitled Threshold Limit Values (TLVs) and Biological Exposure Indices (BEIs), as amended from time to time; or
	- **(b)** an airborne hazardous substance, other than a chemical agent, that is hazardous to the health or safety of the employee.

- **(2)** If there is a likelihood that the concentration of an airborne chemical agent may be greater than the value referred to in paragraph (1)(a), air samples shall be taken and the concentration of the chemical agent shall be determined
	- **(a)** in accordance with the standards set out in the United States National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health publication entitled NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods, 5th edition, dated 2003;
	- **(b)** in accordance with a method used to collect and analyze a representative sample of the chemical agent with accuracy and with detection levels at least equal to those which would be obtained if the standards referred to in paragraph (a) were used; or
	- **(c)** if no specific standards for the chemical agent are set out in the publication referred to in paragraph (a) and no method that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) exists, in accordance with a scientifically proven method used to collect and analyze a representative sample of the chemical agent.

- **(3)** A record of each test made pursuant to subsection (2) shall be kept by the employer for three years after the date of the test.

- **(4)** A record referred to in subsection (3) shall include
	- **(a)** the date, time and location of the test;
	- **(b)** the chemical agent for which the test was made;
	- **(c)** the sampling and testing method used;
	- **(d)** the result obtained; and
	- **(e)** the name and occupation of the qualified person who made the test.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/95-105, s. 26(F); SOR/2015-143, ss. 37, 72, 73(F).




**7.21** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), the concentration of an airborne chemical agent or combination of airborne chemical agents in a work place shall be less than 50 per cent of the lower explosive limit of the chemical agent or combination of chemical agents.

- **(2)** Where a source of ignition may ignite the concentration of an airborne chemical agent or combination of airborne chemical agents in a work place, that concentration shall not exceed 10 per cent of the lower explosive limit of the chemical agent or combination of chemical agents.



**7.21.1** Compressed air, gas or steam shall not be used for blowing dust or other substances from structures, machinery or materials if
- **(a)** there is a risk of any person being directly exposed to the jet or if a fire, explosion, injury or health hazard is likely to result from that use; or
- **(b)** that use would result in either a concentration of an airborne chemical agent that is greater than the value referred to in paragraph 7.20(1)(a) for that chemical agent or a concentration of an airborne chemical agent or combination of airborne chemical agents that is greater than the maximum concentration set out in subsection 7.21(1) or (2).
> SOR/2015-143, s. 38.




**7.21.2** 

- **(1)** Compressed air shall not be used for cleaning clothing contaminated with
	- **(a)** asbestos; or
	- **(b)** another airborne chemical agent with an exposure limit referred to in paragraph 7.20(1)(a) that is lower than 1 mg/m<sup>3</sup>.

- **(2)** If compressed air is used to clean any other clothing,
	- **(a)** eye protectors that meet the standards set out in CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.3-07, Eye and Face Protectors, as amended from time to time, shall be worn; and
	- **(b)** either the maximum compressed air pressure in the pipeline shall be 69 kPa (10 psi) or a safety nozzle limiting the air pressure to no more than 69 kPa (10 psi) shall be used.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 38.




**7.22** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 39]




#### Ionizing and Non-ionizing Radiation


**7.23** 

- **(1)** If a device that is capable of producing and emitting energy in the form of ionizing or non-ionizing radiation is used in a work place, the employer shall apply the limits set out in Limits of Human Exposure to Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Energy in the Frequency Range from 3 kHz to 300 GHz – Safety Code 6 (2009), published by the Department of Health, as amended from time to time.

- **(2)** If an employee works on or near a device that is capable of emitting nuclear energy, the employer shall ensure that the employee’s exposure to nuclear energy does not exceed the radiation dose limits set out in the [Radiation Protection Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2000/203.md).

- **(3)** The employer shall ensure that no employee, other than a nuclear energy worker as defined in section 2 of the [Nuclear Safety and Control Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1997/c.%209.md), is exposed in the course of any year to a concentration of radon that on average, over the year, is higher than 800 Bq/m<sup>3</sup>.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 39.





**DIVISION II** 
### Hazardous Substances Other Than Controlled Products
> [SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F)]




#### Identification


**7.24** Every container of a hazardous substance, other than a controlled product, that is stored, handled or used in the work place shall be labelled in a manner that discloses clearly
- **(a)** the name of the substance; and
- **(b)** the hazardous properties of the substance.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).




**7.25** Where a material safety data sheet pertaining to a hazardous substance, other than a controlled product, that is stored, handled or used in a work place may be obtained from the supplier of the hazardous substance, the employer shall
- **(a)** obtain a copy of the material safety data sheet; and
- **(b)** keep a copy of the material safety data sheet readily available in the work place for examination by employees.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





**DIVISION III** 
### Controlled Products



#### Interpretation


**7.26** In this Division,

***bulk shipment*** means a shipment of a controlled product that is contained, without intermediate containment or intermediate packaging, in
- **(a)** a tank with a water capacity of more than 454 L,
- **(b)** a freight container or a portable tank, or
- **(c)** a road vehicle or a railway vehicle; (*expédition en vrac*)

***hazardous waste*** means a controlled product that is intended solely for disposal or is sold for recycling or recovery; (*résidu dangereux*)

***manufactured article*** means any article that is formed to a specific shape or design during manufacture, the intended use of which when in that form is dependent in whole or in part on its shape or design, and that, under normal conditions of use, will not release or otherwise cause a person to be exposed to a controlled product; (*article manufacturé*)

***supplier label*** means, in respect of a controlled product, a label prepared by a supplier pursuant to the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md); (*étiquette du fournisseur*)

***supplier material safety data sheet*** means, in respect of a controlled product, a material safety data sheet prepared by a supplier pursuant to the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md); (*fiche signalétique du fournisseur*)

***work place label*** means, in respect of a controlled product, a label prepared by an employer pursuant to this Division; (*étiquette du lieu de travail*)

***work place material safety data sheet*** means, in respect of a controlled product, a material safety data sheet prepared by an employer pursuant to subsection 7.30(1). (*fiche signalétique du lieu de travail*)
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Application


**7.27** 

- **(1)** This Division does not apply in respect of any
	- **(a)** wood or product made of wood;
	- **(b)** tobacco or product made of tobacco; or
	- **(c)** manufactured article.

- **(2)** This Division, other than section 7.38, does not apply in respect of hazardous waste.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Material Safety Data Sheets and Labels in respect of certain Controlled Products


**7.28** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2) and section 7.37, every employer shall adopt and implement the provisions of sections 7.24 and 7.25 in respect of a controlled product and may, in so doing, replace the name of the substance with the product identifier, where the controlled product is a controlled product that
	- **(a)** is present in the work place;
	- **(b)** was received from a supplier; and
	- **(c)** is one of the following:
		- **(i)** an explosive within the meaning of the [Explosives Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-17.md),
		- **(ii)** a cosmetic, device, drug or food within the meaning of the [Food and Drugs Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/F/F-27.md),
		- **(iii)** a control product within the meaning of the [Pest Control Products Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/2002/c.%2028.md),
		- **(iv)** a prescribed substance within the meaning of the Atomic Energy Control Act, and
		- **(v)** a product, material or substance included in Part II of Schedule I to the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md) that is packaged as a consumer product.

- **(2)** All radioactive materials used in a work place shall be packaged, when not in use, in accordance with the requirements of the Transport Packaging of Radioactive Materials Regulations.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Supplier Material Safety Data Sheets


**7.29** 

- **(1)** Where a controlled product, other than a controlled product referred to in paragraph 7.28(1)(c), is received by an employer, the employer shall, at the time the controlled product is received in the work place, obtain from the supplier of the controlled product a supplier material safety data sheet, unless the employer has in his possession a supplier material safety data sheet that
	- **(a)** is for a controlled product that has the same product identifier;
	- **(b)** discloses information that is current at the time that the controlled product is received; and
	- **(c)** was prepared and dated not more than three years before the date that the controlled product is received.

- **(2)** Where there is a controlled product in a work place and the supplier material safety data sheet pertaining to the controlled product is three years old, the employer shall, where possible, obtain from the supplier an up-to-date supplier material safety data sheet.

- **(3)** Where it is not possible for an employer to obtain an up-to-date supplier material safety data sheet referred to in subsection (2), the employer shall update the hazard information on the most recent supplier material safety data sheet that he has received on the basis of the ingredients disclosed in that supplier material safety data sheet.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Work Place Material Safety Data Sheet


**7.30** 

- **(1)** Subject to section 7.37, where an employer receives a supplier material safety data sheet, the employer may prepare a work place material safety data sheet to be used in the work place in place of the supplier material safety data sheet if
	- **(a)** the work place material safety data sheet discloses at least the information disclosed on the supplier material safety data sheet;
	- **(b)** the information disclosed on the work place material safety data sheet does not disclaim or contradict the information disclosed on the supplier material safety data sheet;
	- **(c)** the supplier material safety data sheet is available for examination by employees in the work place; and
	- **(d)** the work place material safety data sheet discloses that the supplier material safety data sheet is available in the work place.

- **(2)** The employer shall update the work place material safety data sheet referred to in subsection (1)
	- **(a)** as soon as is practicable in the circumstances but not later than 90 days after new hazard information becomes available to the employer; and
	- **(b)** at least once every three years.

- **(3)** Where the information required to be disclosed by this section is not available to the employer or not applicable to the controlled product, the employer shall replace the information by the words “not available” or “not applicable”, as the case may be, in the English version and the words “*pas disponible*” or “*sans objet*”, as the case may be, in the French version of the material safety data sheet.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Availability of Material Safety Data Sheet


**7.31** Every employer shall keep readily available for examination in any work place in which an employee may handle or be exposed to a controlled product a copy in English and in French of
- **(a)** in the case of an employer who is an employer referred to in subsection 7.30(1), the work place material safety data sheet; and
- **(b)** in any other case, the supplier material safety data sheet.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12; SOR/95-105, s. 27(F).





#### Labels


**7.32** 

- **(1)** Subject to sections 7.33 and 7.34, each controlled product, other than a controlled product referred to in paragraph 7.28(1)(c), in a work place that is intended for use in the work place and each container in which such a controlled product is contained in a work place shall, if the controlled product or the container was received from a supplier, have applied to it a supplier label.

- **(2)** Subject to sections 7.33, 7.34 and 7.37, where a controlled product, other than a controlled product referred to in paragraph 7.28(1)(c), is received from a supplier and an employer places the controlled product in the work place in a container, other than the container in which it was received from the supplier, the employer shall apply to the container a supplier label or a work place label that discloses the following information:
	- **(a)** the product identifier;
	- **(b)** hazard information in respect of the controlled product; and
	- **(c)** a statement indicating that a material safety data sheet for the controlled product is available in the work place.

- **(3)** Subject to sections 7.36 and 7.37, no person shall remove, deface, modify or alter the supplier label applied to
	- **(a)** a controlled product that is in the work place; or
	- **(b)** a container of a controlled product that is in the work place.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12; SOR/95-105, s. 28.





#### Portable Containers


**7.33** Where an employer stores a controlled product in the work place in a container that has applied to it a supplier label or a work place label, a portable container filled from that container does not have to be labelled in accordance with section 7.32 if
- **(a)** the controlled product is required for immediate use; or
- **(b)** the following conditions apply in respect of the controlled product:
	- **(i)** it is under the control of and used exclusively by the employee who filled the portable container,
	- **(ii)** it is used only during the work shift in which the portable container was filled, and
	- **(iii)** it is clearly identified by a work place label applied to the portable container that discloses the product identifier.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Special Cases


**7.34** An employer shall, in a conspicuous place near a controlled product, post a sign in respect of the controlled product that discloses the product identifier if the controlled product is
- **(a)** in a bulk shipment that is not placed in a container at the work place; or
- **(b)** not in a container and stored in bulk.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Signs


**7.35** The information disclosed on a sign referred to in section 7.34 or paragraph 7.38(b) shall be of such a size that it is clearly legible to the employees in the work place.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Replacing Labels


**7.36** Where, in a work place, a label applied to a controlled product or a container of a controlled product becomes illegible or is removed from the controlled product or the container, the employer shall replace the label with a work place label that discloses the following information:
- **(a)** the product identifier;
- **(b)** hazard information in respect of the controlled product; and
- **(c)** a statement indicating that a material safety data sheet for the controlled product is available in the work place.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12; SOR/95-105, s. 29(F).





#### Exemptions from Disclosure


**7.37** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), where an employer has filed a claim for exemption from the requirement to disclose information on a material safety data sheet or on a label pursuant to subsection 11(2) of the [Hazardous Materials Information Review Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2024%20(3rd%20Supp.),%20Part%20III.md), the employer shall disclose, in place of the information that the employer is exempt from disclosing,
	- **(a)** where there is no final disposition of the proceedings in relation to the claim, the date that the claim for exemption was filed and the registry number assigned to the claim under the [Hazardous Materials Information Review Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%2024%20(3rd%20Supp.),%20Part%20III.md); and
	- **(b)** where the final disposition of the proceedings in relation to the claim is that the claim is valid, a statement that an exemption has been granted and the date on which the exemption was granted.

- **(2)** Where a claim for exemption referred to in subsection (1) is in respect of the chemical name, common name, generic name, trade name or brand name of a controlled product, the employer shall, on the material safety data sheet or label of the controlled product, replace that information with a code name or code number specified by the employer as the product identifier for that controlled product.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12; SOR/95-105, s. 30(F).





#### Hazardous Waste


**7.38** Where a controlled product in the work place is hazardous waste, the employer shall clearly identify it as hazardous waste by
- **(a)** applying a label to the hazardous waste or its container; or
- **(b)** posting a sign in a conspicuous place near the hazardous waste or its container.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12.





#### Information Required in a Medical Emergency


**7.39** For the purposes of subsection 125.2(1) of the Act, a medical professional is a registered nurse registered or licensed under the laws of a province.
> SOR/88-200, s. 12; SOR/95-105, s. 31.





**DIVISION IV** 
### [Repealed, SOR/95-105, s. 32]



**PART VIII** 
## Safety Materials, Equipment, Devices and Clothing


**8.1** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 40]




### General


**8.2** Where
- **(a)** it is not reasonably practicable to eliminate a health or safety hazard in a work place or to control it within safe limits, and
- **(b)** the use of protection equipment may prevent or reduce injury from that hazard,
every person granted access to the work place who is exposed to that hazard shall use the protection equipment prescribed by this Part.
> SOR/95-105, s. 33(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 72.




**8.3** All protection equipment
- **(a)** shall be designed to protect the person from the hazard for which it is provided; and
- **(b)** shall not in itself create a hazard.



**8.4** All protection equipment provided by the employer shall
- **(a)** be maintained, inspected and tested by a qualified person; and
- **(b)** where necessary to prevent a health hazard, be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition by a qualified person.




### Protective Headwear


**8.5** If there is a hazard of head injury in a work place, protective headwear that meets the standards set out in CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.1-05, Industrial Protective Headwear – Performance, Selection, Care, and Use, as amended from time to time, shall be used.
> SOR/95-105, s. 61(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 41.





### Protective Footwear


**8.6** 

- **(1)** If there is a hazard of foot injury or electric shock through footwear in a work place, protective footwear that meets either the standards set out in CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z195-09, Protective Footwear, as amended from time to time, or the standards set out in the American Society for Testing and Materials publication F2413-05, entitled Standard Specification for Performance Requirements for Foot Protection, dated 2005, shall be used.

- **(2)** Where there is a hazard of slipping in a work place, non-slip footwear shall be used.
> SOR/95-105, s. 61(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 42.





### Eye and Face Protection


**8.7** If there is a hazard of injury to the eyes or face of an employee in a work place, the employer shall provide the employee with an eye or face protector that meets the standards set out in CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.3-07, Eye and Face Protectors, as amended from time to time.
> SOR/95-105, s. 34; SOR/2015-143, s. 43.





### Respiratory Protection


**8.8** 

- **(1)** If there is a hazard of an airborne hazardous substance or an oxygen-deficient atmosphere in a work place, the employer shall provide a respiratory protective device that is listed in the United States National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health publication entitled Certified Equipment List, as amended from time to time.

- **(2)** The respiratory protective device shall be selected, fitted, used and maintained in accordance with the standards set out in CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z94.4-11, Selection, Use, and Care of Respirators, as amended from time to time.

- **(3)** If air is provided by means of a respiratory protective device, the air shall meet the standards set out in CSA Standard CAN/CSA-Z180.1-13, Compressed Breathing Air and Systems, as amended from time to time.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14. SOR/95-105, ss. 35, 61(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 43.




**8.9** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 43]




### Skin Protection


**8.10** Where there is a hazard of injury or disease to or through the skin of a person in a work place, the employer shall provide every person granted access to the work place with
- **(a)** a shield or screen;
- **(b)** a cream to protect the skin; or
- **(c)** an appropriate body covering.
> SOR/95-105, s. 37; SOR/2015-143, s. 44(F).





### Loose Clothing


**8.11** Loose-fitting clothing, long hair, dangling accessories, jewellery or other similar items that are likely to be hazardous to the health or safety of an employee in a work place shall not be worn unless they are so tied, covered or otherwise secured as to prevent the hazard.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 72.





### Protection Against Moving Vehicles


**8.11.1** If an employee is regularly exposed to contact with moving vehicles during his or her work, the employer shall ensure that the employee wears high-visibility safety apparel that is readily visible under all conditions of use.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 45.





### Records


**8.12** 

- **(1)** A record of all protection equipment provided by the employer shall be kept by the employer in the work place in which the equipment is located for a period of two years after the day on which the equipment ceases to be used.

- **(2)** The record referred to in subsection (1) shall contain
	- **(a)** a description of the equipment and the date of its acquisition by the employer;
	- **(b)** the date and result of each inspection and test of the equipment;
	- **(c)** the date and nature of any maintenance work performed on the equipment since its acquisition by the employer; and
	- **(d)** the name of the person who performed the inspection, test or maintenance of the equipment.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 46.





### Instructions and Training


**8.13** 

- **(1)** Every person granted access to the work place who uses protection equipment shall be instructed by the employer in the use of the equipment.

- **(2)** Every employee who uses protection equipment shall be instructed and trained in the use, operation and maintenance of the equipment.

- **(3)** The instructions referred to in subsection (2) shall be
	- **(a)** set out in writing; and
	- **(b)** kept by the employer readily available for examination by every person granted access to the work place.
> SOR/95-105, s. 38(F).





### Defective Protection Equipment


**8.14** Where an employee finds any defect in protection equipment that may render it unsafe for use, he shall report the defect to his employer as soon as possible.



**8.15** An employer shall mark or tag as unsafe and remove from service any protection equipment used by his employees that has a defect that may render it unsafe for use.




**PART IX** 
## Hand Tools and Materials Handling



### Interpretation


**9.1** In this Part, ***hand tool*** means a tool designed to be held in the hand and operated by manual power. (*outil à main*)




### Instructions and Training


**9.1.1** An employer shall provide every employee with instructions and training in the safe and proper inspection, maintenance and use of all hand tools that he or she is required to use and in the safe and proper handling of all materials that he or she is required to handle.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 47.





### Hand Tools


**9.2** Where an employee finds any defect in a hand tool that may render it unsafe for use, he shall report the defect to his employer as soon as possible.



**9.3** An employer shall mark or tag as unsafe and remove from service any hand tool used by his employees that has a defect that may render it unsafe for use.




### Manual Handling of Materials


**9.4** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 48]



**9.5** Where an employee is required to manually lift or carry loads in excess of 10 kg, the employee shall be instructed and trained by the employer
- **(a)** in a safe method of lifting and carrying the loads; and
- **(b)** in a work procedure appropriate to the conditions of the work place and the employee’s physical condition.



**9.6** Where an employee is required to manually lift or carry loads in excess of 45 kg, the instructions given to the employee in accordance with section 9.5 shall be
- **(a)** set out in writing;
- **(b)** readily available to the employee to whom they apply; and
- **(c)** kept by the employer for two years after the instructions cease to apply.



**9.7** Where a hand cart is provided for use in a work place, it shall be
- **(a)** capable of carrying the intended load without tipping; and
- **(b)** where the hand cart is used for serving food or beverages, fitted with a braking mechanism to prevent uncontrolled movement of the hand cart.




**PART X** 
## Rolling Stock



**DIVISION I** 
### Design and Construction



#### General


**10.1** Rolling stock shall, to the extent that is reasonably practicable, be so designed and constructed that a failure of any part of the rolling stock will not result in loss of control of the rolling stock or create a hazardous condition.
> SOR/95-105, s. 40(F).





#### Fuel Tanks


**10.2** Where a fuel tank, compressed gas cylinder or similar container contains a hazardous substance and is mounted on rolling stock, it shall be
- **(a)** so located or protected that under all conditions it is not hazardous to the health or safety of an employee who is required to operate or ride on the rolling stock; and
- **(b)** connected to fuel overflow and vent pipes that are so located that fuel spills and vapours cannot
	- **(i)** be ignited by hot exhaust pipes or other hot or sparking parts, or
	- **(ii)** be hazardous to the health or safety of an employee who is required to operate or ride on the rolling stock.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/95-105, s. 41(F); SOR/2015-143, ss. 49(E), 72, 73(F).





#### Protection from Elements


**10.3** 

- **(1)** Rolling stock shall be fitted with a roof or other structure that protects the operator from exposure to any weather condition that is likely to be hazardous to the operator’s health or safety.

- **(2)** If heat that is produced by self-propelled rolling stock may raise the temperature in the operator’s compartment or position to 27°C or higher, measured 1 m above the floor in the centre of the compartment, the compartment or position shall be protected from the heat by an insulated barrier.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 50.





#### Vibration


**10.4** All self-propelled rolling stock shall be so designed and constructed that the operator will not be injured or his control of the rolling stock impaired by any vibration, jolting or uneven movement of the rolling stock.




#### Controls


**10.5** The arrangement and design of dial displays and the controls and general layout and design of the operator’s compartment or position on all self-propelled rolling stock shall not hinder or prevent the operator from operating the rolling stock.




#### Control Systems


**10.6** All self-propelled rolling stock shall be fitted with braking and other control systems that
- **(a)** are capable of safely controlling and stopping the movement of the rolling stock or any accessory equipment that is on or part of the rolling stock; and
- **(b)** respond reliably and quickly to moderate effort on the part of the operator.



**10.6.1** Locomotives and passenger train cab cars shall be fitted with braking and other control systems that operate automatically if the operator is incapacitated.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 51.





#### Electric Rolling Stock


**10.7** Self-propelled rolling stock that is electrically powered shall be designed and maintained to protect employees from electrical shock.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 52.





#### Automatic Rolling Stock


**10.8** Where rolling stock that is controlled or operated by a remote or automatic system may make physical contact with an employee, it shall be prevented from doing so by the provision of an emergency stop system.



**10.8.1** Rolling stock that is operated by a controller unit shall be equipped with a system that is capable of initiating an emergency stop.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 53.





#### Self-propelled Rolling Stock Used to Transport Passengers
> [SOR/2015-143, s. 54]



**10.9** Where self-propelled rolling stock is used for transporting passengers or a locomotive is operated in an area occupied by employees, the rolling stock or locomotive shall be fitted with a horn or other audible warning device that emits a distinctive sound that can be heard clearly above the noise of that rolling stock or locomotive and any ambient noise.
> SOR/95-105, s. 42(E).




**10.9.1** Self-propelled rolling stock that is used for transporting passengers shall be fitted with emergency exits and with retro-reflective exterior signs and phosphorescent interior signs that clearly indicate the location of each emergency exit.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 55.





**DIVISION II** 
### Maintenance, Operation and Use



#### Inspection, Testing and Maintenance


**10.10** 

- **(1)** Before a class of rolling stock is operated for the first time in a work place, the employer shall set out in writing instructions for the inspection, testing and maintenance of that class of rolling stock.

- **(2)** The instructions referred to in subsection (1) shall specify the nature and frequency of inspections, tests and maintenance.



**10.11** 

- **(1)** Every inspection, test and maintenance of rolling stock shall be performed by a qualified person.

- **(2)** The qualified person referred to in subsection (1) shall
	- **(a)** comply with the instructions referred to in subsection 10.10(1); and
	- **(b)** make and sign a report of each inspection, test or maintenance work performed by him.

- **(3)** The report referred to in paragraph (2)(b) shall
	- **(a)** include the date of the inspection, test or maintenance work performed by the qualified person;
	- **(b)** identify the rolling stock that was inspected, tested or maintained; and
	- **(c)** set out the safety observations of the qualified person inspecting, testing or maintaining the rolling stock.

- **(4)** The employer shall keep a copy of the instructions referred to in subsection 10.10(1) for as long as the rolling stock is in use.

- **(5)** The employer shall keep a copy of the report referred to in paragraph (2)(b) for one year after the report is signed.
> SOR/95-105, s. 43.





#### Operator Instruction and Training


**10.12** 

- **(1)** An employer shall provide every operator of self-propelled rolling stock with instruction and training in the procedures to be followed for its safe and proper use.

- **(1.1)** If an employer requires an operator to inspect or fuel rolling stock, the employer shall provide the operator with instruction and training in the procedures to be followed for its safe and proper inspection or fuelling, as the case may be.

- **(2)** Every employer shall keep a record of any instruction and training referred to in subsection (1) for as long as the operator remains in his employ.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 56.





#### Operation


**10.13** No employer shall require an employee to operate self-propelled rolling stock unless the employee is capable of operating the rolling stock safely.




#### Repairs


**10.14** Any repair, modification or replacement of a part of any rolling stock shall not decrease the safety of the rolling stock or part.




#### Transporting and Positioning of Employees


**10.15** Rolling stock shall not be used for transporting or positioning an employee unless the rolling stock is designed for that purpose.




#### Employee Seating


**10.16** Where seating is provided for employees on rolling stock, it shall be securely installed and, where reasonably practicable, upholstered with a material that breathes.
> SOR/95-105, s. 44(F).





#### Housekeeping


**10.17** The floor and the cab and other occupied parts of rolling stock shall, in so far as is reasonably practicable, be kept free of any grease, oil, ice, materials, tools or equipment that may cause an employee to slip or trip.
> SOR/95-105, s. 45.





#### Fuelling


**10.18** An employer shall ensure that if an employee fuels rolling stock in a work place, he or she does the fuelling in accordance with the instruction and training referred to in subsection 10.12(1.1) in a place where the vapours from the fuel are readily dissipated.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 57.





#### Tools


**10.19** Where tools, tool boxes or spare parts are carried on rolling stock, they shall be securely stored.




**Divison III** 
### Storage of Materials


**10.20** 

- **(1)** All materials, goods and things shall be stored and placed in rolling stock in such a manner that the maximum safe load-carrying capacity of the floor of the rolling stock or other supporting structures is not exceeded.

- **(2)** An employee shall store and place materials, goods and other things in rolling stock in such a manner that
	- **(a)** the distribution of light is not reduced;
	- **(b)** there is no obstruction or encroachment of exits, corridors or other passageways;
	- **(c)** the safe operation of the rolling stock is not impeded;
	- **(d)** the ready access to or operation of portable fire fighting equipment is not interfered with;
	- **(e)** the operation of fixed fire fighting equipment is not interfered with; and
	- **(f)** there is no hazard to the health or safety of any employee.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 58.





**DIVISION IV** 
### General Requirements for Machine Guards


**10.21** 

- **(1)** Every machine on rolling stock that has exposed moving, rotating, electrically charged or hot parts or that processes, transports or handles material that constitutes a hazard to an employee shall be equipped with a machine guard that
	- **(a)** prevents the employee or any part of his body from coming into contact with the parts or material;
	- **(b)** prevents access by the employee to the area of exposure to the hazard during the operation of the machine; or
	- **(c)** makes the machine inoperative if the employee or any part of his clothing is in or near a part of the machine that is likely to cause injury.

- **(2)** To the extent that is reasonably practicable, a machine guard referred to in subsection (1) shall not be removable.

- **(3)** A machine guard shall be so constructed, installed and maintained that it meets the requirements of subsection (1).
> SOR/95-105, s. 46(F).




**10.22** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsection (2), where a machine guard is installed on a machine on rolling stock, no person shall use or operate the machine unless the machine guard is in its proper position.

- **(2)** A machine may be operated when the machine guard is not in its proper position in order to permit the repair of the machine or the removal of an injured person from the machine.




**PART XI** 
## Hazardous Occurrence Investigation, Recording and Reporting
> [SOR/95-105, s. 54(F)]




### Interpretation


**11.1** In this Part,

***disabling injury*** means an employment injury or an occupational disease that
- **(a)** prevents an employee from reporting for work or from effectively performing all the duties connected with the employee’s regular work on any day subsequent to the day on which the injury or disease occurred, whether or not that subsequent day is a working day for that employee,
- **(b)** results in the loss by an employee of a body member or part of one or in the complete loss of the usefulness of a body member or part of one, or
- **(c)** results in the permanent impairment of a body function of an employee; (*blessure invalidante*)

***minor injury*** means an employment injury or an occupational disease for which medical treatment is provided and excludes a disabling injury. (*blessure légère*) 
> SOR/95-105, s. 47.





### Report by Employee


**11.2** The employee’s report of every accident or other occurrence arising in the course of their work that has caused injury to the employee or to any other person shall be made to the employer without delay, either orally or in writing.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 59.





### Investigation


**11.3** 

- **(1)** If an employer becomes aware of an accident, occupational disease or other hazardous occurrence that affects an employee in the course of their work, the employer shall without delay
	- **(a)** take necessary measures to prevent a recurrence of the hazardous occurrence;
	- **(b)** appoint a qualified person to carry out an investigation of the hazardous occurrence; and
	- **(c)** report the occurrence and the name of the person appointed to investigate it to the work place committee or the health and safety representative.

- **(2)** If the hazardous occurrence referred to in subsection (1) is an accident that involves a motor vehicle on a public road and that is investigated by a police authority,
	- **(a)** the investigation shall be carried out by obtaining from that police authority a copy of its report respecting the accident; and
	- **(b)** as soon as practicable after receipt of the report, the employer shall provide a copy of the report to the work place committee or the health and safety representative.
> SOR/95-105, s. 48; SOR/2015-143, s. 60.





### Emergency Report


**11.4** An employer shall report the date, time, location and nature of any accident, occupational disease or other hazardous occurrence referred to in subsection 11.3(1) by telephone to the Minister as soon as practicable but not later than 24 hours after becoming aware of the occurrence, if the occurrence results in
- **(a)** the death of an employee;
- **(b)** a disabling injury to two or more employees;
- **(b.1)** the loss by an employee of a body member or a part of it or the complete loss of the usefulness of a body member or a part of it;
- **(b.2)** the permanent impairment of a body function of an employee;
- **(c)** an explosion; or
- **(d)** damage to a boiler or pressure vessel that results in fire or the rupture of the boiler or pressure vessel.
> SOR/95-105, s. 49; SOR/2014-148, s. 18; SOR/2015-143, s. 61.





### Records


**11.5** The employer shall, within 72 hours after a hazardous occurrence referred to in paragraph 11.4(d), record in writing
- **(a)** a description of the hazardous occurrence and the date, time and location of the occurrence;
- **(b)** the causes of the hazardous occurrence; and
- **(c)** the corrective action that was taken, if any.
> SOR/95-105, s. 54(F).





### Minor Injury Record


**11.6** 

- **(1)** Every employer shall keep a record of each minor injury of which he is aware that affects his employees in the course of employment.

- **(2)** A record made pursuant to subsection (1) shall contain
	- **(a)** the date, time and location of the occurrence that resulted in the minor injury;
	- **(b)** the name of the employee affected;
	- **(c)** a brief description of the minor injury; and
	- **(d)** the causes of the minor injury.




### Written Report


**11.7** 

- **(1)** An employer shall make a report in writing, without delay, in the form set out in Schedule I to this Part setting out the information that is required by that form, including the results of the investigation referred to in paragraph 11.3(1)(b), if that investigation discloses that the hazardous occurrence resulted in any one of the following circumstances:
	- **(a)** the death of an employee;
	- **(b)** a disabling injury to an employee;
	- **(c)** an electric shock, toxic atmosphere or oxygen deficient atmosphere that caused an employee to lose consciousness;
	- **(d)** the implementation of rescue, revival or other similar emergency procedures;
	- **(e)** a fire or an explosion.

- **(2)** The employer shall submit a copy of the report referred to in subsection (1)
	- **(a)** without delay, to the work place committee or the health and safety representative; and
	- **(b)** within 14 days after the hazardous occurrence, to the Minister.
> SOR/95-105, s. 50; SOR/2014-148, s. 19; SOR/2015-143, s. 62.




**11.7.1** If an accident referred to in subsection 11.3(2) results in a circumstance referred to in subsection 11.7(1), the employer shall, within 14 days after the receipt of the police report respecting the accident, submit a copy of that report to the Minister.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 62.





### Annual Report


**11.8** An employer shall, not later than March 1 in each year, submit a written report to the Minister, in the form set out in Schedule III to this Part, setting out the number of accidents, occupational diseases and other hazardous occurrences of which the employer is aware that affected any employee in the course of their work during the 12-month period ending on December 31 of the preceding year.
> SOR/95-105, s. 51; SOR/2014-148, s. 20; SOR/2015-143, s. 63.





### Retention of Reports and Records


**11.9** The employer shall keep a copy of
- **(a)** each report submitted under section 11.7.1 or 11.8 for a period of 10 years after the day on which the report is submitted to the Minister; and
- **(b)** the record or report referred to in section 11.5 or subsection 11.6(1) or 11.7(1) for a period of 10 years after the day on which the hazardous occurrence occurred.
> SOR/95-105, s. 52; SOR/2014-148, s. 21; SOR/2015-143, s. 64.





### SCHEDULE I** / ** ANNEXE I
**(Section 11.7 / *article 11.7*)**
## Hazardous Occurrence Investigation Report
## *Rapport d’enquête de situation comportant des risques*
<table>
<tr>
<td>1. TYPE OF OCCURRENCE / *GENRE DE SITUATION*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>□ Death / *Mort*</td>
<td>□ Loss of consciousness / *Évanouissement*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>□ Disabling injury / *Blessure invalidante*</td>
<td>□ Fire or explosion / *Incendie ou explosion*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>□ Rescue, revival or other similar emergency procedures / *Mesures de sauvetage ou de réanimation ou toute autre mesure d’urgence semblable*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2. Employer’s name and mailing address / *Nom et adresse postale de l’employeur*</td>
<td>Postal code / *Code postal*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Telephone number / *Numéro de téléphone*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Site of hazardous occurrence / *Lieu de la situation comportant des risques*</td>
<td>Date and time of hazardous occurrence / *Date et heure de la situation comportant des risques*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Weather / *Conditions météorologiques*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Witnesses / *Témoins*</td>
<td>Supervisor’s name / *Nom du surveillant*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3. Description of what happened / *Description des circonstances*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Brief description and estimated cost of property damage / *Description sommaire et coût estimatif des dommages matériels*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4. Injured employee’s name (if applicable) / *Nom de l’employé blessé (s’il y a lieu)*</td>
<td>Age / *Âge*</td>
<td>Occupation / *Profession*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Years of experience in occupation / *Nombre d’années d’expérience dans la profession*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Description of injury / *Description de la blessure*</td>
<td>Sex / *Sexe*</td>
<td>Direct cause of injury / *Cause directe de la blessure*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Was training in accident prevention given to the injured employee in relation to duties performed at the time of the hazardous occurrence? / *L’employé blessé a-t-il reçu une formation en prévention des accidents relativement aux fonctions qu’il exerçait au moment de la situation comportant des risques?*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>□ Yes / *Oui*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;□ No / *Non*&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Specify / *Préciser*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5. Direct causes of hazardous occurrence / *Causes directes de la situation comportant des risques*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6. Corrective measures and date employer will implement / *Mesures correctives qui seront appliquées par l’employeur et date de leur mise en oeuvre*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Reasons for not taking corrective measures / *Raisons pour ne pas prendre de mesures correctives*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Supplementary preventive measures / *Autres mesures de prévention*</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7. Name of person investigating / *Nom de la personne faisant l’enquête*</td>
<td>Signature</td>
<td>Date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Title / *Titre*</td>
<td>Telephone number / *Numéro de téléphone*</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8. Work place committee’s or health and safety representative’s comments / *Observations du comité local ou du représentant*</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Work place committee member’s or health and safety representative’s name / *Nom du membre du comité local ou du représentant*</td>
<td>Signature</td>
<td>Date</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Title / *Titre*</td>
<td>Telephone number / *Numéro de téléphone*</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/95-105, s. 53; SOR/2015-143, s. 65.




### **SCHEDULE II** 
[Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 66]




### **SCHEDULE III** 
**(Section 11.8)**
FORM: EMPLOYER’S ANNUAL HAZARDOUS OCCURRENCE INVESTIGATION REPORT


GRAPHIC IS NOT DISPLAYED, SEE SOR/95-105, S. 53


> SOR/95-105, s. 53.




**PART XII** 
## First Aid



### Interpretation


**12.1** The following definitions apply in this Part.

***approved organization*** means an organization that is approved by any province for the teaching of first aid. (*organisme agréé*)

***first aid certificate*** means the certificate issued by either a qualified person or the organization that developed the training, as the case may be, for successful completion of a first aid course of at least one day that includes the subjects set out in subsection 12.7(1). (*certificat de secourisme*)

***first aid station*** means a place at which first aid supplies or equipment are stored. (*poste de secours*)
> SOR/88-200, s. 13(E); SOR/2015-143, s. 67.





### First Aid Stations


**12.2** 

- **(1)** An employer shall ensure that there is at least one first aid station located in every work place and that every first aid station is clearly identified by a conspicuous sign and is readily available and accessible during all working hours.

- **(2)** The employer shall inspect every first aid station at least monthly and ensure that its contents are maintained in a clean, dry and serviceable condition.
> SOR/95-105, s. 55(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 67.





### Communication of Information


**12.3** The employer shall post and keep posted, or have readily available, in a conspicuous place accessible to every employee in each work place
- **(a)** a description of the first aid to be rendered for any injury, occupational disease or illness;
- **(b)** the location of first aid stations; and
- **(c)** transport procedures for employees who have an injury, occupational disease or illness.
> SOR/95-105, s. 56(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 67.





### First Aid Supplies and Equipment


**12.4** 

- **(1)** The employer shall provide, for every first aid station, a first aid kit that includes the first aid supplies and equipment set out in the schedule to this Part and shall replenish the kit.

- **(2)** Medication shall not be stored in first aid kits.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 67.




**12.5** 

- **(1)** If there is a hazard of skin or eye injury because of the presence of a hazardous substance in a work place, the employer shall ensure that shower and eye-wash facilities are readily available and accessible to employees.

- **(2)** If it is not practicable to comply with subsection (1), the employer shall provide portable equipment that may be used instead of shower and eye-wash facilities.

- **(3)** If, due to adverse or extreme weather conditions, it is not practicable to comply with subsection (1) or (2), the employer shall provide personal protection equipment to all employees who are likely to be exposed to the hazardous substance.
> SOR/95-105, s. 57; SOR/2015-143, s. 67.





### Emergency Transportation


**12.6** Before assigning employees to a work place, the employer shall
- **(a)** ensure that, for that work place, there is an ambulance service or other suitable means of transporting an employee who has an injury, occupational disease or illness to a hospital, medical clinic or physician’s office, at which emergency medical treatment can be dispensed; and
- **(b)** provide for that work place a means of quickly summoning the ambulance service or other suitable means of transportation.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 67.





### Training


**12.7** 

- **(1)** An employer shall provide their employees with a one-day first aid course that includes the following subjects and that is given by a qualified person who holds a valid certification from an approved organization attesting that the person is competent to deliver first aid training:
	- **(a)** the provision of basic first aid and the employee’s role and obligations in relation to basic first aid;
	- **(b)** emergency scene management, including anti-contamination procedures;
	- **(c)** cardiopulmonary resuscitation;
	- **(d)** medical emergencies;
	- **(e)** shock and unconsciousness; and
	- **(f)** wounds and bleeding.

- **(2)** An employer shall ensure that all employees hold a valid first aid certificate.

- **(3)** First aid certificates are, for the purposes of this Part, valid for a maximum of three years from the date of issue.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 67.





### Records


**12.8** 

- **(1)** An employee who renders first aid in accordance with this Part shall
	- **(a)** enter the following information in a first aid record:
		- **(i)** the date and time that the injury, occupational disease or illness is reported,
		- **(ii)** the full name of the employee who received first aid,
		- **(iii)** the date on which, and the time and location at which, the first aid was rendered,
		- **(iv)** a brief description of the injury, occupational disease or illness,
		- **(v)** a brief description of the first aid rendered,
		- **(vi)** a brief description of the arrangements made for the treatment or transportation of the employee who received first aid, and
		- **(vii)** the names of witnesses, if applicable;
	- **(b)** sign the first aid record beneath the information entered; and
	- **(c)** store the first aid record in the first aid kit.

- **(2)** The employer shall keep the first aid record for a period of two years beginning on the day of the last entry.

- **(3)** Persons who have access to first aid records shall keep the information that is contained in the records confidential, except as required for the purposes of meeting reporting obligations under Part XI.

- **(4)** On receiving a written request from a workers’ compensation authority for the province where the work place is located or from a physician, the employer shall provide an employee with a copy of the first aid record pertaining to the employee’s treatment.

- **(5)** The employer shall keep a record of the expiry date of each employee’s first aid certificate and shall make the record readily available to them.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 67.





### **SCHEDULE** 
**(Section 12.4)**
<table>
<h4>First Aid Supplies and Equipment</h4>
<tr>
<th>Item</th>
<th>Column I</th>
<th>Column II</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Supplies and Equipment</th>
<th>Quantity</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>Antiseptic — wound solution, 60 ml or antiseptic swabs (10 pack)</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>Applicator for antiseptic — disposable (10 pack) (not needed if antiseptic swabs provided)</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>Bag — disposable, emesis</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>Bandages — adhesive strips (12 pack)</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>5</td>
<td>Bandages — gauze 2.5 cm × 4.5 m</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>6</td>
<td>Bandages — 100 cm × 100 cm × 140 cm triangular — and 2 pins</td>
<td>2</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>7</td>
<td>Emergency blanket — pocket size or conventional type</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>8</td>
<td>First aid record (section 12.8)</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>9</td>
<td>First aid kit container</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>10</td>
<td>Dressing: compress, sterile, 7.5 cm × 12 cm</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11</td>
<td>Dressings: gauze, sterile 7.5 cm × 7.5 m</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12</td>
<td>Forceps: splinte</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>13</td>
<td>Gloves: disposable</td>
<td>4</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>14</td>
<td>First aid manual — English — current edition</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>15</td>
<td>First aid manual — French — current edition</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>16</td>
<td>Pad with shield or tape for eye</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>17</td>
<td>Safety pins (card of 10)</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>18</td>
<td>Scissors</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>19</td>
<td>Tape — adhesive, surgical 2.5 cm × 4.6 m</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>20</td>
<td>Mouth-to-mouth resuscitation mask with one-way valve</td>
<td>1</td>
</tr>
</table>

> SOR/2015-143, s. 67.




**PART XIII** 
## Safe Occupancy of the Work Place
> [SOR/95-105, s. 58(F)]




### Interpretation


**13.1** In this Part, ***NFPA standard*** means the 2010 edition of the United States National Fire Protection Association publication entitled NFPA 10: Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 68.





### Fire Extinguishers


**13.2** 

- **(1)** An employer shall install at least one portable fire extinguisher in rolling stock, other than rolling stock that is used to transport freight.

- **(2)** A portable fire extinguisher shall be a multi-purpose dry chemical extinguisher that
	- **(a)** complies with the NFPA standard; and
	- **(b)** has a rating of not less than 40-B:C if it is located in a locomotive and of not less than 2-A:10-B:C if it is located in any other work place.
> SOR/95-105, s. 59(F); SOR/2015-143, s. 68.




**13.3** An employer shall ensure that a portable fire extinguisher referred to in section 13.2 is
- **(a)** installed, inspected, used, maintained, repaired and tested in accordance with the NFPA standard; and
- **(b)** located so that it is readily accessible.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 68.




**13.4** Instructions for the operation of a portable fire extinguisher referred to in section 13.2 shall be posted in a conspicuous place in close proximity to the fire extinguisher.



**13.5** [Repealed, SOR/2015-143, s. 69]



**13.6** A person who performs an inspection in accordance with paragraph 13.3(a) shall date and sign a record of the inspection and the employer shall keep the record for a period of two years from the day on which it is signed.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 69.





### Emergency Procedures


**13.7** 

- **(1)** An employer shall, after consulting with the work place committee or the health and safety representative, prepare emergency procedures to be implemented
	- **(a)** if any person commits or threatens to commit an act that is likely to be hazardous to the health or safety of the employer or any employees;
	- **(b)** where there is a possibility of an accumulation, spill or leak of a hazardous substance in a work place controlled by the employer, in the event of such an accumulation, spill or leak;
	- **(c)** in the event of an accident involving a train; and
	- **(d)** in the event of the failure of the lighting system of a train.

- **(2)** The emergency procedures referred to in subsection (1) shall contain
	- **(a)** a full description of the procedures to be followed, including the duties of his employees; and
	- **(b)** the location of the emergency equipment provided by the employer.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/95-105, s. 60; SOR/2015-143, ss. 70, 73(F).





### Moving and Coupling


**13.8** Where there is an accumulation, spill or leak of a hazardous substance from rolling stock, no person other than a qualified person shall move the rolling stock or couple any other rolling stock to it.
> SOR/88-200, s. 14; SOR/2015-143, s. 73(F).





### Instructions and Training


**13.9** Every employee shall be instructed and trained in
- **(a)** the procedures to be followed by him in the event of an emergency; and
- **(b)** the location, use and operation of fire extinguishers and emergency equipment provided by the employer.




**PART XIV** 
## Hazard Prevention Program


**14** Despite section 1.4 of the [Canada Occupational Health and Safety Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/86/304.md), Part XIX of those Regulations applies in respect of employees on trains while in operation and in respect of all persons granted access to such trains by the employer, with the following modifications:
- **(a)** the reference to “section 15.3” in paragraphs 19.3(1)(e), 19.4(f) and 19.6(1)(c) is to be read as a reference to section 11.2 of these Regulations; and
- **(b)** the reference to “these Regulations” in paragraph 19.6(1)(d) is to be read as a reference to these Regulations.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 71.





**PART XV** 
## Violence Prevention in the Work Place


**15** Despite section 1.4 of the [Canada Occupational Health and Safety Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/86/304.md), Part XX of those Regulations applies in respect of employees on trains while in operation and in respect of all persons granted access to such trains by the employer.
> SOR/2015-143, s. 71.



