> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/87/322.md)

# General Permit Authorizing the Exportation of Carbon Steel Products

**SOR/87-322**

Enabling authorities: 
- [EXPORT AND IMPORT PERMITS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/E/E-19.md)

Date registered: 5 June 1987

----------



## Short Title


**1** This Permit may be cited as the General Export Permit No. Ex. 82 — Carbon Steel Products.




## General


**2** Any person may, under the authority of this General Export Permit, export to any country from Canada any goods described in item 5303 of the [Export Control List](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/89/202.md),
- **(a)** where the total invoice value of the goods, as declared on the Export Declaration (Form B-13) prescribed by the Minister of National Revenue under the [Customs Act](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1985/c.%201%20(2nd%20Supp.).md), is not more than $5,000; or
- **(b)** subject to section 3, where those goods are exported by companies authorized by Revenue Canada, Customs and Excise, to report the goods periodically pursuant to the [Reporting of Exported Goods Regulations](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/2005/23.md) and in accordance with the Directive issued June 1, 1986 by Revenue Canada, Customs and Excise on the Summary Reporting of Exports.
> SI/89-118, s. 1.




**3** It is a condition of this General Export Permit that every person who exports goods under paragraph 2(b) shall, within two working days after the end of each week, report to the Director General of the Special Trade Relations Bureau of the Department of External Affairs, under the appropriate Special Trade Relations Bureau Classification Commodity Code, the details of every shipment of such goods exported during that week.



**4** 

- **(1)** Where an Export Declaration (Form B-13) is used to report to Revenue Canada, Customs and Excise, the export of any shipment of goods exported under the authority of this General Export Permit, the Export Declaration shall contain the statement “Exported under the authority of General Export Permit No. Ex. 82 — Carbon Steel Products” or “Exporté en vertu de la Licence générale d’exportation n<sup>o</sup> Ex. 82 — Produits en acier ordinaire”.

- **(2)** Where any shipment of goods exported under the authority of this General Export Permit is reported to Revenue Canada, Customs and Excise, in accordance with the procedures set out in the Directive referred to in paragraph 2(b), the statement “Exported under the authority of General Export Permit No. Ex. 82 — Carbon Steel Products” or “Exporté en vertu de la Licence générale d’exportation n<sup>o</sup> Ex. 82 — Produits en acier ordinaire” shall appear on any carriers’ documents and Customs Cargo Control documents relating to that shipment.


