> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/87/663.md)

# Order Respecting the Fixing and Imposing of Levies on, and the Collecting of Levies From, Producers of Wood in the Labelle Area in the Province of Quebec, With Respect to the Marketing of Wood in Interprovincial and Export Trade

**SOR/87-663**

Enabling authorities: 
- [AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS MARKETING ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/A/A-6.md)

Date registered: 20 November 1987

----------

The Wood Producers’ Syndicate of the County of Labelle, pursuant to section 4 of the [Quebec Wood Order, 1983](/en/Regulations/Statutory%20Orders%20and%20Regulations/83/713.md), made by Order in Council P.C. 1983-2885 of September 22, 1983<sup><a href='#footnote1_e'>[*]</a></sup>, hereby makes the annexed Order respecting the fixing and imposing of levies on, and the collecting of levies from, producers of wood in the Labelle area in the Province of Quebec, with respect to the marketing of wood in interprovincial and export trade.

<a name='footnote1_e'><sup>*</sup></a>: SOR/83-713, 1983 Canada Gazette Part II, p. 3444<br />

Saint-Eustache, Quebec, November 17, 1987




## Short Title


**1** This Order may be cited as the Labelle Area Wood Producers’ Levy (Interprovincial and Export Trade) Order.




## Interpretation


**2** In this Order,

***producer*** means a person engaged in the production or marketing of wood; (*producteur*)

***Syndicate*** means the Wood Producers’ Syndicate of the County of Labelle; (*Syndicat*)

***wood*** means wood produced in the municipal county of Labelle in the Province of Quebec. (*bois*)




## Levies


**3** A producer shall pay to the Syndicate in respect of the marketing of wood in interprovincial and export trade a general administration levy calculated at one of the following rates:
- **(a)** where the wood is measured in tonnes, $0.56 per tonne;
- **(b)** where the wood is measured in apparent cubic metres, $0.35 per apparent cubic metre;
- **(c)** where the wood is measured in solid cubic metres, $0.53 per solid cubic metre;
- **(d)** where the wood is measured in cords of 128 apparent cubic feet (4 ft. × 4 ft. × 8 ft.), $1.27 per cord;
- **(e)** where the wood is measured in cords of 160 apparent cubic feet (5 ft. × 4 ft. × 8 ft.), $1.59 per cord;
- **(f)** where the wood is measured in cords of 192 apparent cubic feet (6 ft. × 4 ft. × 8 ft.), $1.90 per cord;
- **(g)** where the wood is measured in cords of 224 apparent cubic feet (7 ft. × 4 ft. × 8 ft.), $2.22 per cord;
- **(h)** where the wood is measured in cords of 256 apparent cubic feet (8 ft. × 4 ft. × 8 ft.), $2.54 per cord;
- **(i)** where the wood is measured in cubic feet, $1.50 per 100 cubic feet;
- **(j)** where the wood is measured by board measure, $2.54 per 1,000 board feet;
- **(k)** where the wood is measured in short tons, $0.50 per short ton;
- **(l)** where the wood is measured in units of 1,000 pounds, $0.25 per unit;
- **(m)** where the wood is measured in firewood units (4 ft. × 8 ft. × 16 in.), $0.42 per unit;
- **(n)** where the wood is sold by the piece, 4.6 per cent of the sale price to the mill.




## Method of Collection


**4** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a producer shall pay any levy payable by the producer pursuant to section 3 to the Syndicate at its headquarters in Saint-Eustache, Quebec, within 30 days after the marketing of the wood in respect of which the levy is payable.

- **(2)** Where the Syndicate markets wood in interprovincial or export trade on behalf of a producer, the Syndicate may deduct from any money payable to the producer by the Syndicate any levy payable by the producer, pursuant to section 3, in respect of the marketing of that wood.

- **(3)** Where a producer does not pay the levy set out in section 3 to the Syndicate pursuant to subsection (1) and where the Syndicate has not deducted the levy pursuant to subsection (2), any person who markets that producer’s wood in interprovincial or export trade shall
	- **(a)** deduct from any money payable to the producer by that person any levy payable by the producer to the Syndicate pursuant to section 3; and
	- **(b)** within 30 days after the marketing of the wood in respect of which the levy is payable, pay the levy to the Syndicate and provide the Syndicate with an accounting in respect of the payment.


