> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/79/108.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Wheat Produced in Canada in 1977 Other than Wheat Produced in the Designated Area as Defined in the Canadian Wheat Board Act

**SOR/79-108**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 26 January 1979

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to section 2, paragraphs 8.2(1)(b) and 10(1)(b) and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of wheat produced in Canada in 1977 other than wheat produced in the designated area as defined in the Canadian Wheat Board Act.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Wheat Stabilization 1977 Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada who produced more than five metric tonnes of wheat in Canada in 1977. (*producteur*)

***wheat*** means any grade of Canada Eastern Wheat as set out in Schedule I of the [Canada Grain Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-10.md), grown in Canada in 1977 and sold on or before June 30, 1978, except wheat grown in the designated area as defined in the [Canadian Wheat Board Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-24.md); (*Blé*) 
> SOR/79-478, s. 1.





## Designated Commodity


**3** Wheat is hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purpose of determining the prescribed price of wheat for the calendar year 1977, the percentage of the base price of wheat for that year is hereby prescribed at 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of wheat for the calendar year 1977 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 90 per cent of the base price of wheat for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** Subject to section 7, the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers, on a maximum of 650 metric tonnes of wheat per producer, of $31.97 per metric tonne of wheat other than wheat sold for feed.
> SOR/79-478, s. 2.




**7** Where there is more than one person in a production unit as determined by the Board, the Board may make payments for each such person up to a limit of three payments per production unit.


