> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/79/143.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Apples Grown in Canada in 1977

**SOR/79-143**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 12 February 1979

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 2(1)(b), subsection 2(2), paragraph 8.2(1)(b), subsection 9(1), paragraph 10(1)(b) and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of apples grown in Canada in 1977.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Apple Stabilization 1977 Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***apples*** means apples of the McIntosh variety grown in Canada in 1977 and sold on or before June 30, 1978; (*pommes*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing apples in Canada. (*producteur*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Apples are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purposes of determining the prescribed price of apples grown in the Province of Quebec for the year 1977, the percentage of the base price of apples grown in that Province for that year is hereby prescribed at 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of apples grown in the Province of Quebec for the year 1977 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 90 cent of the base price of apples grown in that Province for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations, but only on the basis of apples grown in that Province.




## Payment to Producers


**6** Subject to section 7, the Board may, pursuant to paragraphs 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers in the Province of Quebec of 1.95¢ per lb. of apples, on a maximum of 750,000 lbs., in respect of apples produced in that Province in excess of 15,000 lbs. by a producer in that Province.



**7** Where there is more than one person in a production unit, as determined by the Board, the Board may make payment for each such person up to a limit of three payments per production unit.


