> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/79/276.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Yellow Seed Onions Grown in Canada in 1977

**SOR/79-276**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 23 March 1979

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and the Treasury Board, pursuant to paragraph 2(1)(b), subsection 2(2), paragraph 8.2(1)(b), subsection 9(1), paragraph 10(1)(b) and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of yellow seed onions grown in Canada in 1977.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Yellow Seed Onion Stabilization 1977 Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing yellow seed onions in Canada; (*producteur*)

***yellow seed onions*** means onions of the grade Canada No. 1, in accordance with the [Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Regulations](/en/Regulations/Consolidated%20Regulations%20of%20Canada/201-300/C.R.C.,%20c.%20285.md), grown in Canada in 1977 and sold on or before June 30, 1978. (*oignons jaunes de semis*)




## Designated Commodity


**3** Yellow seed onions are hereby designated as an agricultural commodity for the purposes of the Act.




## Prescribed Percentage


**4** For the purpose of determining the prescribed price of yellow seed onions for the year 1977, the percentage of the base price of yellow seed onions grown in that year is hereby prescribed at 90 per cent.




## Prescribed Price


**5** The prescribed price of yellow seed onions for the year 1977 shall be the aggregate of
- **(a)** 90 per cent of the base price of yellow seed onions for that year; and
- **(b)** the index applicable thereto calculated in the manner set out in the Production Cost Index Regulations.




## Payment to Producers


**6** Subject to section 7, the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers in the provinces of Manitoba, Ontario and Quebec of 2.7 cents per pound of yellow seed onions, on a maximum of 70 per cent of yellow seed onions, not exceeding two million pounds, produced by a producer in those provinces.



**7** Where there is more than one person in a production unit as determined by the Board, the Board may make payment for each such person up to a limit of three payments per production unit.


