> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/79/476.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Corn for 1977-78

**SOR/79-476**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 14 June 1979

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of corn for 1977-78.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Corn Stabilization Regulations, 1977-78.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*loi*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada who produced more than 10 metric tonnes of corn in Canada during the calendar year 1977. (*producteur*)




## Payment to Producers


**3** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) to (4), the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers in respect of corn produced by them during the calendar year 1977 and sold during the period commencing September 1, 1977 and ending August 31, 1978 on a maximum of 1 000 metric tonnes of corn per producer.

- **(2)** For the purposes of this section, corn produced and sold by a producer, as set out in subsection (1), means the difference between
	- **(a)** the aggregate of
		- **(i)** the dry shelled corn at 15.5 per cent moisture, and
		- **(ii)** the cob corn and shelled corn at more than 15.5 per cent moisture that is determined by the Board to be equivalent to corn described in subparagraph (i) using the method of conversion explained in the brochure of the Ontario Ministry of Agriculture and Food entitled “How Your Shelled Corn is Bought”,
sold by that producer during the period commencing September 1, 1977 and ending August 31, 1978 through the normal commercial system, including sales to elevators, feed mills, grain dealers and commercial end-users such as starch companies, distillers, feed lots and other livestock and poultry feeding operations, but excluding sales of seed corn and silage; and
	- **(b)** the amount of feed purchased by that producer during the period commencing September 1, 1977 and ending August 31, 1978 that is determined by the Board to be equivalent to corn described in subparagraph (a)(i) using the method of conversion explained in the brochure of the Ontario Ministry of Agriculture and Food entitled “Pricing Corn in Ontario” and the factors for conversion set out in the schedule.

- **(3)** Where there is more than one person in a production unit as determined by the Board, the Board may make payment for each such person up to a limit of three payments per production unit.

- **(4)** As a condition of his eligibility for a payment under these Regulations, a producer shall provide the Board with all information, documents and records relating to any feed purchased by him during the period commencing September 1, 1977 and ending August 31, 1978.




### **SCHEDULE** 
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>*Protein Content of Feed*</th>
<th>*Factor*</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>not exceeding 15%</td>
<td>0.8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>from 16% to 18%</td>
<td>0.7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>from 19% to 21%</td>
<td>0.6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>from 22% to 25%</td>
<td>0.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>where 2000 lbs. (1 ton) at 16% dairy ration is equivalent to 1400 lbs. dry, shelled corn at 15.5% moisture.</td>
</tr>
</table>


