> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/79/542.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Stabilization of the Price of Barley for 1977-78

**SOR/79-542**

Enabling authorities: 
- [FARM INCOME PROTECTION ACT](/en/Acts/Statutes%20of%20Canada/1991/c.%2022.md)

Date registered: 26 July 1979

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) and section 11 of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the stabilization of the price of barley for 1977-78.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Barley Stabilization Regulations, 1977-78.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***Act*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Act; (*Loi*)

***barley*** means any grade of barley set out in Schedule I to the [Canada Grain Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/G/G-10.md) grown in Canada in 1977 other than
- **(a)** Canada Eastern No. 3 Feed,
- **(b)** Canada Western No. 3 Feed,
- **(c)** experimental grades of barley, and
- **(d)** barley grown in the designated area as defined in the [Canadian Wheat Board Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/C/C-24.md); (*orge*)

***Board*** means the Agricultural Stabilization Board; (*Office*)

***producer*** means a person residing in Canada and producing barley in Canada. (*producteur*)




## Payment to Producers


**3** 

- **(1)** Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the Board may, pursuant to paragraph 10(1)(b) of the Act, make payments to producers in respect of barley produced by them during the calendar year 1977 and sold during the period commencing August 1, 1977 and ending July 31, 1978, in excess of two metric tonnes, on a maximum of 160 metric tonnes of barley per producer.

- **(2)** For the purposes of this section, barley produced and sold by a producer, as set out in subsection (1), means the difference between
	- **(a)** the amount of barley sold by that producer during the period commencing August 1, 1977 and ending July 31, 1978 through the normal commercial system, including sales to elevators, feed mills, grain dealers and commercial end-users such as starch companies, distillers, feed lots and other livestock and poultry feed operations; and
	- **(b)** the amount of feed purchased by that producer during the period commencing August 1, 1977 and ending July 31, 1978 that is determined by the Board to be equivalent to barley using the factors for conversion set out in the schedule.

- **(3)** Where there is more than one person in a production unit as determined by the Board, the Board may make payment for each such person up to a limit of three payments per production unit.

- **(4)** As a condition of his eligibility for a payment under these Regulations, a producer shall provide the Board with all information, documents and records relating to any feed purchased by him during the period commencing August 1, 1977 and ending July 31, 1978.




### **SCHEDULE** 
<table>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th>*Protein Content of Feed*</th>
<th>*Factor*</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1</td>
<td>not exceeding 15%</td>
<td>0.8</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2</td>
<td>from 16% to 18%</td>
<td>0.7</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3</td>
<td>from 19% to 21%</td>
<td>0.6</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4</td>
<td>from 22% to 25%</td>
<td>0.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>where 2000 lbs. (1 ton) at 16% dairy ration is equivalent to 1400 lbs. barley.</td>
</tr>
</table>


