> [Go to French version](/fr/Règlements/Décrets,%20ordonnances%20et%20règlements%20statutaires/79/732.md)

# Regulations Respecting the Advertising, Sale and Importation of Cellulose Fibre Loose Fill Thermal Insulation

**SOR/79-732**

Enabling authorities: 
- [HAZARDOUS PRODUCTS ACT](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md)

Date registered: 12 October 1979

----------

His Excellency the Governor General in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, pursuant to section 7 of the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md), is pleased hereby to make the annexed Regulations respecting the Advertising, Sale and Importation of Wood Based Cellulose Fibre Loose Fill Thermal Insulation.




## Short Title


**1** These Regulations may be cited as the Hazardous Products (Cellulose Insulation) Regulations.




## Interpretation


**2** In these Regulations,

***container*** means any bag, package, box or other receptacle that contains a product and is customarily displayed to the consumer of the product; (*contenant*)

***CSA A101*** means the “Mineral Fibre Thermal Building Insulation” being CSA Standard A101-M1977 established by the Canadian Standards Association, published in June, 1977; (*ACNOR A101*)

***product*** means cellulose fibre described in item 35 of Part II of Schedule I to the [Hazardous Products Act](/en/Acts/Revised%20Statutes%20of%20Canada/H/H-3.md); (*produit*)

***Smouldering Test***[Revoked, SOR/81-1022, s. 2]

***Standard for Cellulose Insulation*** means the “Standard for: Thermal Insulation, Cellulose Fiber, Loose Fill” being standard 51-GP-60M established by the Canadian General Standards Board, published in April, 1979, as amended in September, 1980; (*norme pour isolant cellulosique*)

***ULC-S102.2-1978*** means ULC-S102.2-1978, Fourth Edition, May 1978, Standard Method of Test for Surface Burning Characteristics of Floor, Floor Covering and Miscellaneous Materials, established by Underwriters’ Laboratories of Canada. (*S102.2-1978 des ULC*)
> SOR/81-1022, s. 2; SOR/91-263, s. 2.





## General


**3** A product may be advertised, sold or imported into Canada if the product meets the requirements set out in sections 4 to 8.
> SOR/91-263, s. 3(F).





## Labelling Requirements


**4** 

- **(1)** Every product shall be labelled to show, in the manner described in subsection (2), the following information, namely,
	- **(a)** the name and principal place of business in Canada of
		- **(i)** the manufacturer of the product, where the product is manufactured in Canada, or
		- **(ii)** the importer of the product, where the product is not manufactured in Canada; and
	- **(b)** the day, month and year of manufacture of the product.
	- **(c)** [Revoked, SOR/81-1022, s. 3]

- **(2)** The information referred to in subsection (1) shall be shown in a clearly visible and legible manner on
	- **(a)** the container of the product that is displayed to the consumer of the product at the time of the sale to him; or
	- **(b)** where there is no container for the product, the bill of sale or other paper given to the consumer of the product.
> SOR/81-1022, s. 3.





## Performance Requirements


**5** A product, after having been prepared for testing in accordance with the procedure for the determination of surface burning characteristics set out in section 7.2 of the Standard For Cellulose Insulation, shall not, when tested in accordance with ULC S102.2-1978, have an average flame spread classification greater than 150.



**6** When a product that has been prepared in accordance with Schedule I is tested in accordance with the procedure set out in sections 7.11.2 and 7.11.4 of the Standard for Cellulose Insulation, no test specimen shall exhibit a mass loss greater than 15 per cent.
> SOR/81-1022, s. 4.




**7** When a product is tested in accordance with the procedure for the separation of chemicals set out in section 7.10 of the Standard For Cellulose Insulation, it shall not exhibit an average separation of non-cellulosic components greater than 1.5 per cent.



**8** When a product is tested in accordance with the procedure for corrosiveness set out in section 7.8 of the Standard For Cellulose Insulation,
- **(a)** metal test specimens made of aluminum, copper and steel shall not exhibit any perforation; and
- **(b)** galvanized steel test specimens shall not exhibit
	- **(i)** pitting, or
	- **(ii)** loss in mass that exceeds that of the control by more than 25 per cent, in the case of more than one of the three test specimens.




### **SCHEDULE I** 
**(s. 6)**
## Cellulose Insulation Sample Preparation

### Determination of Design Density

**1** The following apparatus shall be used:
- **(a)** six sample containers made from plywood, three with inside dimensions of 900 mm long by 350 mm wide by 150 mm deep and three with inside dimensions of 450 mm long by 350 mm wide by 300 mm deep;
- **(b)** a depth gauge, as specified in section 5.2.2.2.1 of CSA A101, except with a pin that is at least 300 mm long; and
- **(c)** a blowing machine that has an adjustable air setting control and an agitator in its hopper and that is equipped with 30 m of 5 cm diameter corrugated blowing hose.


**2** 

- **(1)** Prepare a product labelled as suitable only for blowing application, or as suitable for blowing or pouring application, or that does not have a suitable method of application specified on its label in accordance with subsections (3), (4), (6) and (7).

- **(2)** Prepare a product labelled as suitable only for pouring application in accordance with subsections (3), (5), (6) and (7).

- **(3)** Determine the mass of the empty sample containers described in paragraph 1(a).

- **(4)** Determine the density of the product using the procedure set out in sections 7.4.3 and 7.4.5.1 of the Standard for Cellulose Insulation and subsections (6) and (7).

- **(5)** Determine the density of the product using the procedure set out in sections 7.4.4 and 7.4.5.1 of the Standard for Cellulose Insulation and subsections (6) and (7).

- **(6)** Measure the thickness of the insulation in the centre of the container and make four additional measurements at the centre of each quarter of the container and calculate the average thickness. Determine the mass of the specimen. Determine the design density using the following equation:
```
Design Density = M<sub>d</sub>/V<sub>d</sub> × 1.27
```

- **where:** M<sub>d</sub>  is the mass of the specimen;
- **where:** V<sub>d</sub>  is the volume of the specimen calculated by internal length of container times internal width of container times average thickness of the insulation.

- **(7)** Calculate the average design density of the product, which is the average of results from all six containers obtained in the manner set out in subsection (6).



### Sample Preparation for Smouldering Test

**3** The apparatus specified in section 7.11.1 of the Standard for Cellulose Insulation shall be used.


**4** 

- **(1)** Determine the mass of a clean dry specimen holder (which mass is referred to in section 7.11.4.10 of the Standard for Cellulose Insulation as m<sub>o</sub>).

- **(2)** Attach the sleeve to the specimen holder so as to fit snugly against the outer surface of the four sides of the holder using masking tape on the outer sleeve and specimen holder interface, so that the height of the holder and attached sleeve is 20 cm.


**5** 

- **(1)** Determine the mass of the product required to yield a specimen that is sufficient to fill the specimen holder to its top edge when the product is at its average design density as determined in subsection 2(7).

- **(2)** Pour the specimen evenly into the specimen holder.

- **(3)** If any portion of the specimen rests above the top edge of the specimen holder, prepare the specimen in accordance with subsection (6).

- **(4)** If the entire specimen rests below the top edge of the specimen holder, discard the specimen and repeat subsections (1) and (2).

- **(5)** If the top surface of the entire specimen rests flush with the top edge of the specimen holder, proceed to subsection (7).

- **(6)** Gently drop the specimen holder in such a manner that the base of the holder lands squarely on a hard surface and continue to drop the holder in this manner until the holder is filled flush to its top edge with the specimen.

- **(7)** Remove the sleeve and masking tape from the specimen holder.


**6** Repeat the procedure set out in section 4 and in subsections 5(2) to (5) and (7) with two additional specimen holders.


> SOR/81-1022, s. 5.


